The Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) Party has reiterated that Opposition leader Raila Odinga will be Kenya’s fifth President.
 ODM on Sunday dismissed reports that the National Super Alliance (NASA) had rethought of its plan to swear in Raila on Tuesday, November 28. 
 ALSO READ:

Parties headache as 208 apply for nine EALA posts

 “Forget newspaper headlines. Forget so called 'sources close to baba'. Forget Government propaganda through sections of the media. Forget any diversionary tactics by Jubilee and their agencies... the resolve by the people of Kenya is one... baba must be President,” Philip Etale, ODM Director of Communications said.
 FORGET newspaper HEADLINES. FORGET so called 'sources close to BABA'. FORGET govt propaganda through sections of the media. FORGET any DIVERSIONARY tactics by Jubilee and their AGENCIES... The resolve by the PEOPLE of Kenya is one... BABA MUST BE PRESIDENT.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

— Philip Etale (@EtalePhilip) November 26, 2017 Earlier reports had indicated that the Opposition leader rejected plans by NASA leaders to proceed with the swearing in saying that it would taint his image.
  
  
 Raila took a swipe at President-elect Uhuru Kenyatta following the alleged shooting of his supporters last week.
 Speaking at Laico Regency Hotel on Friday, Raila asked President-elect Uhuru and the Jubilee Government to arrest, detain or prosecute him if the regime thinks he is the problem.
 "If Raila Odinga is the problem, arrest Raila. If Raila Odinga is the problem, detain Raila. If Raila Odinga is the problem, prosecute Raila. If Raila Odinga is the problem, imprison Raila. And ultimately if Raila Odinga is the problem, shoot Raila to death then,” said the Former Prime Minister. 
 ALSO READ:

What next for Raila Odinga?

 NASA leader accused the police of using excessive force killing innocent Kenyans.
 You don't go shooting innocent people who only came to receive Raila Odinga. What have these young kids done to you? Mr Kenyatta, he who lives by the bullet dies by the bullet.
 NASA held a fundraiser on Friday evening at the Laico Regency, Nairobi.
 According to the coalition, the funds would be directed towards funeral expenses of supporters who died during Raila’s return.
 The President on Friday (November 24, 2017) invited the NASA leader to his inauguration.
 The Head of State also invited other presidential candidates who participated in the August 8 General Election and October 26 repeat presidential election.
 “The seven other presidential candidates and their running mates in the last presidential election have been invited for the ceremony,” Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua said on Friday. 
 ALSO READ:

NASA: We will explore laws to make Raila our President

 Mr Kinyua urged the Opposition to cancel its plan to swear in Raila and engage the Government in issues affecting Kenyans.
 "As a people who would want us to move together as one, we will plead that it is not necessary to have any other public function that day. We can bring out the issues we want discussed later.  We should all work towards a cohesive, united Kenyan society," said Kinyua.
 Kinyua is the chairman of the 22-member Assumption of Office of the President Committee.
 The Supreme Court unanimously upheld the re-election of Uhuru paving way for his swearing in for second term in office.
 The court nullified the August 8 election on account of illegalities and irregularities.
 Among the faults found by the highest court in the land is lack of proper transmission system and at the same time use of forms which did not have security features.
 This time, the court unanimously upheld President Uhuru’s re-election throwing out the petitions on grounds that they were not merited.
