Nicholas Kirimi used to be one of key photographers in Meru County during the former regime.
 But when a change of guard happened this year, the photography door closed. He had to find a new way to eke a living. 
 ALSO READ:

Fret not when your maize fails, french beans will do!

 “Luckily for me, I already had a few dairy cows and I was already practising dairy farming as a side hustle. So when that door closed it was easy and flexible to transition into dairy farming,” he says.
 Using his savings, the 34-year-old Kirimi expanded his dairy project and went into it full throttle.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Now he has all the time to concentrate on his farm in Uruku in South Imenti.
 “Unlike in the past when I was busy doing photography for the county government, now I have a lot of time to keep a closer eye on my cows,” he says.
 He started off with two fresians which he bought at Sh50,000 each, now he has six mature heifers. He took advantage of the county government’s subsidised sexed semen when the time for artificial insemination came.
 “I used Sh3,000 for artificial insemination after the county government brought the cost down to Sh7, 000 a dose,” he says.
 The farmer delivers his milk produce to the Meru Dairy Union and sells a litre between Sh36 and Sh38.
 The farmer has settled well into dairy farming and has no regrets. 
 ALSO READ:

Vet: I made my first million from these tomatoes

 “Dairy farming has always been close to my heart since I was a small boy. For me it is a hobby I love doing,” he says.
 He says he learnt the basics of dairy farming early, which saves him a lot.
 Free artificial insemination
 “For me mastitis is of great concern. This is one disease that loves dairy cows. To ensure my cows are free of this disease, I maintain high hygiene standards at the cow shed. I also ensure that when milking the cows, my hands are clean.”
 Further, he ensures a vet visits the farm to administer vaccines when need arises. “I also do not allow my animals to graze freely because that would expose them to diseases from other farms,” he says.
 Another big challenge he grapples with is feed management.
 “Feed is expensive and it eats into our profit margins. When nappier grass is not in plenty, I buy bales of fodder from Timau. To supplement feeds, I grow sugarcane which is always available even during dry seasons. Actually, my cows produce more milk because of the amount of sugarcane they consume, in addition to the dairy feeds,” he says. 
 ALSO READ:

Meru-based school leads pack in Mount Kenya region

 Like for most dairy farmers feed is proving a challenge and he has to go great lengths to overcome that hurdle.
 “I buy a bundle of hay at Timau at Sh300. In a month, during the dry season, I have to buy at least 40 bundles. But during rainy seasons there is a lot of nappier grass and maize for my cows. The lack of feeds is a serious problem between July and October,” he says.
 In the typical Kenyan ‘mkulima style’, he has a fond name for his precious cows
 His more productive cow is four-year old Karoko, who produces 26 litres per day.
 Three-year-old Diana produces 24 litres daily while Tembo does 25 litres.
 “I expect Diana to produce up to 30 litres during her second calving,” he says.
 Kirimi says he delivers close to 80 litres to the dairy cooperative every day but his aim is to hit a target of 100 litres in future.
 For those who want to venture into this business he says: “The secret to get good milk yields is practising zero grazing. You will never see my cows grazing by the road side or paddocks. They have enough space to feed, relax and move,” he says.
 
 ALSO READ:

Teenage girls design eco-friendly seedling bag

