The Universities Academic Staff Union (UASU) strike, the third this year, will be entering its second month tomorrow. The strike began on November 1 when lecturers in all public universities across the country downed their tools protesting the Government’s failure to honour a 2013-2017 Comprehensive Bargaining Agreement (CBA).
 This strike follows on the heels of a protracted doctors’ strike that lasted three months and a countrywide nurses’ strike that lasted six months. In all the strikes, the major issue of contention was the Government’s failure to honour CBAs willingly entered into. 
 ALSO READ:

UASU: Strike will continue until ‘irreducible minimums’ are met

 The offer of Sh4.7 billion in June as part of the Sh10 billion agreed upon in the 2013-2017 CBA precipitated the July lecturers’ strike as this was seen as an attempt by the Government to initiate the process of a re-negotiation of the CBA. Last week, the Government ordered the release of the Sh5.2 billion balance to cater for the revised salaries.
 The payment of this money was to be split into two phases, the first Sh2.1 billion for payment of salaries for the past  five months. The balance of Sh3 billion would be paid at a later date. The need for the Government to honour the CBA in line with the provisions of the agreement cannot be overemphasised.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Striking lecturers should on the other hand appreciate the gesture by the Government and abandon their hard-line stand; demanding the outstanding amount be paid in full. Something, as the argument goes, is better than nothing.
 There is despair among students who take inordinately long to complete their courses. In some instances, these grievances have ended up in costly student demonstrations.
 Little wonder then that the job market has constantly decried the lack of relevant skills in university graduates.
 The constant disruption of learning in our public universities is having its toll not only on students, but those bearing the burden of upkeep.
 Interruptions in the learning process impact negatively on the quality of education in our universities, an occurrence that has, over the years, lowered our international rankings.
 There is little to expect when learners and lecturers rush through lessons to beat deadlines. Calling off the strike is the sensible thing to do. 
 ALSO READ:

Lecturers warn Government: Honour CBA or else…

