President is keen on cementing his legacy while Ruto is keen on 2022 succession Immediate difficult task for President is assembling his Cabinet and Government with an eye on his legacy. Demands to reward loyalists, ensure regional balance, uphold integrity and to appease the Opposition without upsetting succession politics will weigh heavily on President Uhuru Kenyatta as he crafts his new Cabinet.
 After his inauguration on Tuesday for a second and final term, the immediate difficult task for President Kenyatta is assembling his Cabinet and government with an eye on his legacy and to manage huge expectations that could trigger a fallout if mishandled. 
 ALSO READ:

Why Uhuru’s speech offers hope

 Competing interests
 The President has to manage the diverse competing interests to also ensure he selects competent Cabinet secretaries to implement his programmes for the next five years that include ambitious promises on universal healthcare coverage, mega infrastructure projects, home ownership and expansion of economy.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Whereas the President is keen on cementing his legacy, particularly uniting a country deeply divided by a fractious protracted presidential election, his deputy William Ruto is keen to have strategic appointments to help his goal to succeed Uhuru in 2022.
 Faced by an aggressive Opposition led by Raila Odinga that vows it does not recognise his presidency, Uhuru on Tuesday indicated he is willing to ‘incorporate’ ideas of his competitors, political speak interpreted as a sign that he may pick appointees from among the Opposition ranks.
 Both Uhuru and Ruto are said to have wooed some politicians to join Jubilee ahead of the repeat polls, with some such as former governors Peter Munya and David Nkedianye who were convinced to withdraw their election petitions eyeing Cabinet appointments.
 Other former governors Ukur Yattani (Marsabait), Moses Akaranga (Vihiga), former MPs Paul Otuoma (Funyula), Gideon Mung'aro (Kilifi North) and Ababu Namwamba (Budalang'i) and former Mombasa senator Hassan Omar are among those angling for key appointments.
 “The President will nominate Cabinet secretaries when he is ready,” State House Spokesman Manoah Esipisu said when asked if Uhuru has started putting together the list.
 It's expected that Uhuru will bring new faces to Cabinet, with insiders saying perhaps five to six current CSs may be retained. 
 ALSO READ:

Banish binary politics through seeking national consensus

 There is already intense jostling for Cabinet positions in Uhuru's Mount Kenya backyard, with leaders divided on whether the current Cabinet Secretaries from the region should be retained.
 Nyeri Senator Ephraim Maina's sentiments that Devolution Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri should not be reappointed to the Cabinet caused a storm in the region.
 And in Ruto’s backyard, Rift MPs said while Uhuru and Ruto have a free hand in picking CSs and Principals Secretaries (PSs) of their choice, they expected performance, integrity and 2022 succession politics to guide the appointments.
 Nandi Senator Kiprotich Cherargei argued: “We expect monumental changes. The president will be building his legacy and the DP will be building strategy for 2022.”
 Emurua Dikirr MP Johanna Ngeno said the Cabinet should also represent the face of Kenya and added that the president should consider a "special place" for Kanu chairman Gideon Moi, citing his credentials as a unifying and a development conscious leader.
 "As the President enters his last term, Gideon leadership acumen should come in handy. He's been tested and there's evidence he is a good team player," said the Kanu MP yesterday.
 Keiyo South MP Daniel Rono said: "The Presidency should now reward areas that voted them back to power and should retain those who performed exemplary in the past five years." 
 ALSO READ:

With elections behind us, let’s now get back to business

 Lemanken Aramat, the Narok East MP, said intellectuals and professionals from the Maasai community and herders should feature in the Cabinet and other public appointments.
 Bureti MP Japheth Kiptergech Mutai and his Belgut counterpart Nelson Koech advised the Deputy President to make appointments with an eye on the 2022 General Election.
 Keter endorsed
 They also endorsed Energy Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter to be retained to the Cabinet, citing the Last Mile electricity connection programme.
 In Murang'a County,  Maragua MP Mary Waithera said elected leaders want Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia retained.
 And in Upper Eastern region, lobbying for top positions in the national government from Cabinet Secretary, Principal Secretary and ambassadors in northern Kenya has started in earnest. Big names are eyeing the position of Cabinet position should Uhuru sack Sports, Culture and Arts CS Hassan Wario.
 Those eyeing either CS or PS portfolios from upper Eastern, according to reliably sources, include governorship losers Abdul Bahari (Isiolo), Mr Yattani (Marsabit) and Godana Doyo (Party for Development and Reforms).
 [Geoffrey Mosoku, Ali Abdi, Titus Too, Fred Kibor, Boniface Gikandi, Jacinta Mutura, Munene Kamau, Patrick Kibet, Nikko Tanui and Steve Mkawale] 
 
 ALSO READ:

Will Kenya enjoy some smooth sailing after Uhuru's swearing in?

