Today (Friday, November 24) marks the beginning of a series of activities planned by the Opposition led by Raila Odinga.
 This will culminate in a public rally on Tuesday parallel to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s inauguration. 
 ALSO READ:

Opinion: After Uhuru, Kikuyus should step aside and let others enjoy as well

 National Super Alliance (NASA) leaders have organised a meeting at Uhuru Park next Tuesday when the swearing-in of President Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto will be underway at the Moi Sports Centre, Kasarani.
 The Supreme Court upheld Uhuru’s re-election following the October 26 repeat presidential election boycotted by Raila, who has vowed not to recognise his government.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 In the lead-up to the parallel meeting, NASA will today hold a fundraiser at Nairobi’s Laico Regency hotel to help the families of those killed during protests against the elections.
 NASA leaders say at least 27 were killed between Friday last week and Monday this week.
 The Opposition has placed an obituary containing the names of 27 supporters who they say either died from police bullets or were hacked to death in violence that followed Raila’s return from the United States, and Monday’s Supreme Court ruling that upheld Uhuru’s victory.
 Gunshot wounds
 Thursday, an autopsy conducted by the Government pathologist at the City Mortuary on 18 victims established that 10 died after being shot and eight from trauma associated with either stabbing or hacking.
 Raila, Musalia Mudavadi and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula will lead the funds drive. 
 ALSO READ:

Uhuru trains sights on cash crops in last term

 The Opposition has asked backers to turn up in large numbers to contribute to help families of those killed and injured.
 On Saturday, the NASA coalition moves to Machakos where they plan to hold an inaugural mini people’s assembly, a platform they intend to use to pile pressure on President Kenyatta’s administration, which they have vowed never to recognise.
 NASA has invited MPs to Maanzoni Lodge for what they have styled as a Mini Council of the People’s Assembly.
 It is not clear if the Opposition has deliberately ignored a High Court order barring the formation of the people’s assembly, with 12 of the 19 Opposition-leaning county assemblies already passing a motion to reject Uhuru’s win and endorse the formation of the forums.
 The High Court in Kitui this week issued orders suspending the establishment of the people’s assembly.
 The court blocked the 47 county assemblies from discussing and adopting the motion that urges counties not to recognise Uhuru‘s presidency and demand a fresh vote under a new electoral commission.
 The end game of assemblies, NASA said, would be a convention in Nairobi leading to constitutional changes on, among others, Government structure and poll system. 
 ALSO READ:

Gor Mahia State House visit debate lightens Social Media

 On Monday, the leaders will hold a memorial service for the victims in separate venues across the country while on Tuesday, NASA will stage what they call a mega rally cum joint memorial service for all victims killed since the August elections at Uhuru Park.
 Thursday, the NASA strategy team was finalising a plan of activities which will be presented to the principals this morning following Raila’s return from a four-day stay in Zanzibar Island, Tanzania.
 Zanzibar trip
 Raila’s trip to Zanzibar came after he recently jetted back from a 10-day trip to the US, with claims he met some heads of state from the region and a vice president from the southern African region.  
 “We are going to have a funds drive in aid of those killed by police. All the 27 were shot or hacked. We have been in touch with the families,” said NASA Executive Director Norman Magaya.
 “NASA leaders, civil society and well-wishers will take part in the exercise. We want to assist families of the bereaved to give their kin befitting burials...” he added.
 NASA had asked the International Criminal Court to intervene over poll killings.
 newsdesk@standardmedia.co.ke
 
 ALSO READ:

State denies asking for Uhuru messages

