First of all, congratulations are in order for Uhuru Kenya for being sworn in as the President of Kenya for his second and final term. A lot has happened in the past few months and more than ever Kenya has been polarised since independence.
 While one side is celebrating victory and benefits that shall come with it, another side of Kenya is mourning emotionally and are also fearing the consequences of the loss. To the losing side, the possibilities of getting jobs, and access to state resources will appear farfetched. This should be a dilemma for President Uhuru Kenyatta. The challenge for him now is how to reconcile a nation that is divided and needs healing. In fact, the President has a long to do list on his diary. 
 ALSO READ:

Uhuru’s dilemma in forming cabinet

 Number one on this is to work on bringing cohesion and include people who were perceived to have been his opponents to his government. Remember that in Kenya, the Government is the largest employer, and being left out means less likelihood for many to find a decent livelihood.
 Tax returns




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 From the signs of things, the Government appears broke, this was confirmed by the attempt by the Treasury to float a new Eurobond worth Sh70 billion, and this is likely to raise the national debt even higher. That the economy is under duress is therefore not in doubt. The Kenya Revenue Authority has severally indicated it is unable to achieve its targets. The market indicators are also showing weaknesses. The prolonged political uncertainty has wiped off more than Sh700 billion from the stock trading.
 In addition, Kenya has faced a severe drought that has reduced the expected economic growth and brought uncertainty to horticultural agro based exports. A lot needs to happen, including aggressive efforts to attract more investments, particularly to exploit the countries potential in the tourism sector. The dwindling agriculture sector also needs reorganization to put more emphasis on value addition, rather than specialize in exporting raw materials. Of course the elephant in the room is the challenges posed by corruption. The first term, the Jubilee administration had performed dismally in fighting corruption. President Uhuru Kenyatta is no longer going to face another re-election in 2022. This means that in his legacy, he should leave behind an administration that has zero tolerance to corruption.
 Sleaze
 The corruption dragon had tainted the administration at home and abroad. Unfortunately, fingers have been pointing at people high up in the hierarchy of the Jubilee party. For the second Uhuru government to run efficiently and spur growth, there is no option but to take the corruption dragon head- on without fear or favor. The Jubilee government can very easily stop all corrupt practices using modern technology if there is good will. The issues that have brought the political stalemate in the last few months are on matters electoral reforms. In the coming elections, we should be able to overcome these challenges. Once again, with modern technology, a very credible and transparent election can be organized without fear of manipulation.
  When our democracy grows strong, our economy also grows and Kenya shall get better international standing. President Uhuru Kenyatta should start by putting in place a credible electoral team.  If possible, with international support and an all-inclusive team that can lay the ground for an electoral process that is above board. There are enough experts to help us through this process. Even voting using our mobile phones should be possible, and even cheaper.
 Finally, the best legacy Uhuru Kenyatta can leave behind is the transformation of Northern Kenya. Already through the World Bank funding, North and North-east Development Initiative NEDI, the government of Kenya is intending on undertake a massive reconstruction project that includes the tarmacking of the Isiolo-Mandera Road. 
 ALSO READ:

US congratulates Uhuru, calls for dialogue to end political deadlock

 Once completed, this will make most parts of Kenya accessible. The people of Northern Frontier Counties will immensely benefit from this initiative. Once the NEDI projects are completed, not only would the lives of the people significantly improve, but also issues of insecurity would be a thing of the past.
 Mr Guleid is a Governance consultant. guleid@fcdc.or.ke 
