Economic Freedom Party Chairman Isaack Hassan has send message of goodwill to President Uhuru Kenyatta on his win in the just concluded General election.
 Mr Hassan said his party is happy with the outcome of the Supreme Court decision to declare Mr Kenyatta the winner of the November 26 presidential election. 
 ALSO READ:

Markets react to President Uhuru‘s win

 “We as a party congratulate President Uhuru Kenyatta on his win and wish him success in his second term as Head of State,” he said in a statement to media houses.
 He said his party will continue to work closely with the President and assured him of his support.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Noting that EFP has a majority in the Assembly in Mandera County, Mr Hassan said his party will support both regional and national policies by Jubilee administration.
 “Uhuru’s win is good for our people and we know the region will benefit more even in his second term in office,” he said.
 According to Mr Hassan Kenyans can now put the elections behind and have time to engage in nation building including businesses in peace.
 “We have had a protracted electioneering period and it is good the Supreme Court has shown us the way so that people can go back to their usual business,” he said in the statement.
 During the grueling campaigns, EFP is one of the parties that endorsed the candidacy of President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto.
 EFP enjoys massive support in North eastern especially in Mandera were leaders who enjoy the backing of the Mandera Council of Elders were inspired to go on their own to counter clan politics in the region. 
 ALSO READ:

Uhuru visits Moi in Kabarak (photos)

 During the August 8 elections, EFP managed to get the majority of seats in Mandera Assembly with a total of 27 seats and the Governor Ali Roba has to make do with a legislature that he is not in control of.
 The party also grabbed 4 National Assembly seats, Woman Representative and has a petition pending for the Senator seat during the elections.
 A petition challenging the election of Governor Ali Roba by former P.C Noor Hassan is expected to be ruled probably today and should the election be nullified it could inject a new impetus for dominance in the political landscape of the region.
