The helicopter with five people on board crashed in the morning of October 21 Families of victims of the Lake Nakuru helicopter crash wait desperately for the bodies of their kin to be found and retrieved, two weeks after the tragedy.  
 William Ngugi, 54, sits pensively along the shores of Lake Nakuru, staring as the miniature waves calmly drift into the shores. 
 ALSO READ:

Police question club workers in helicopter accident probe

  
 Dressed in a blue football jersey, faded jeans and black leather shoes, Ngugi is in deep thought. He has been here for several days, praying for answers to a million questions that flash through his mind.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Ngugi keeps an eye on a team of Kenya Navy divers who venture into the lake for what is becoming a futile search for bodies.
 His son, Sam Gitau, a renowned blogger, has been missing for several days alongside four other people after the helicopter they were travelling in crashed into the lake on the morning of Saturday, October 21.
 After another futile search, the divers return to the shores. Ngugi, alongside a host of relatives, suddenly rushes towards the boats.
 However, they soon learn that the boats have brought back nothing.
 “I have nothing to say,"Ngugi tells Saturday Standard."I am here to watch the waves of this lake that holds the body of my son.”
 He travels from his home in Githunguri village, Kiambu County, waking up as early as 5am each day to begin his journey to the lake. 
 ALSO READ:

Three bodies of helicopter crash victims recovered

 Ferry politicians
 The ill-fated helicopter, 5Y-NMJ, white in colour, that was commonly known to ferry politicians was involved in the crash at 7.30am on the fateful day.
 Victims of the accident included pilot Apollo Malowa, Anthony Kipyegon, Gitau, John Mapozi, and Veronicah Muthoni.
 The pilot and Kipyegon's bodies were recovered on October 23, two days after the crash.
 The helicopter crashed a few minutes after it lifted off from Jarika County Lodge in Nakuru town.
 Ngugi says he had never visited Lake Nakuru until he learnt about the crash.
 “I have never seen these waters, neither have I ever paid a visit to the park (Lake Nakuru National Park). I cannot believe the body of my son is lying in the dirty contaminated water as I anxiously wait for its recovery,” said the grieving father. 
 ALSO READ:

Recovery mission continues at Lake Nakuru for crash victms

 He is not alone. Florence Nyambura, Mapozi’s mother, braves the erratic weather around the lake.
 She is overwhelmed by the pain of a mother losing a child. She is also restless and sometimes isolates herself to come to terms with the death that has snatched “my loving, caring and hardworking son”.
 Nyambura recalls the cold morning Mapozi left their home in Mona village, Molo sub-county, two days before the tragedy. He had a tight schedule, having been in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s campaign team, she recalls.
 Nyambura travels every day to the lake accompanied by Mapozi’s father, Samuel Njuguna, 70, and their other two sons — Gerishon Njoru and Peter Nderitu.
 “This is the worst moment I have ever encountered in life. What would you do if you were in my position?  This is so painful,” she says and breaks into tears.
 Sometimes she joins a group of counsellors who console and encourage her to accept her fate. They pray together for spiritual comfort.
 The grieving mother said it is her prayer that the body is found and retrieved for burial to enable her settle and live at peace.
 “I loved my son so much, he was my hope but I have nothing much to say. May God help divers to retrieve his body for burial,” says Nyambura.
 Burial preparations 
 ALSO READ:

Fake News: NASA planted bomb on Kihika’s chopper that crashed into Lake Nakuru

 Back home, her relatives keep asking about the search and if they should continue with burial preparations.
 “Members of my church often ask me about burial preparations for my son. I lack an answer,” she says.
 Muthoni’s family members are also yet to come to terms with their kin's death.
 Her cousin Njuguna Wachira says members of the family spend sleepless nights praying for the recovery of her body. Others gather at their home in Bahati, Nakuru County, to pray with the family.
 “We visit the park every day with the hope that we will find Muthoni’s body. This is a trying moment because her mother has now fallen ill,” says Njuguna.
 It is finally getting dark and heavy rains are pounding hard and the divers are almost calling it a day. Over a distance two pelicans glide gracefully, attracting the attention of those sheltering from the rain.
 Suddenly a group of relatives head out into the storm, perhaps thinking the boat drawing nearer will deliver some news.
 Sadly, they leave the scene in groups, overwhelmed by grief. 
 ALSO READ:

Mystery as 5 die in Lake Nakuru chopper crash

 “If only the waters can speak, if only it could feel the pain we have, then this search mission could have ended long ago,” says Nyambura.
 Even the team of divers that has been leading the search seems discouraged by the failure to retrieve the remaining bodies.
 Moses Owaga, 50, a diver from the Kenya Rescue Divers sponsored by Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko, is among volunteers on the search mission.
 He tells Saturday Standard of their frustration.
 “Each day, we wake up energised and ready for the search mission but in the evening, we are a discouraged lot because the search seems to bear no fruit,” Owaga says.
 “Divers spend long hours inside the water, blindly trying to find the debris that is yet to be located by geologists and other experts.”
 Inside the lake, there are many metallic substances and tree trunks that slow the operation, says the diver.
 The modern machines supplied to help locate the debris, including sonar equipment from the Kenya Navy, and two magnetometers from the Geothermal Development Company (GDC) and Ministry of Mining now seem useless.
