Nairobi Police Commander Japheth Koome has banned planned protests by the National Super Alliance (NASA) in the CBD.
 "I have heard that there are people who will demonstrate but I will not allow it. I know it [picketing] is provided for under Article 37 of the constitution but let us go back to the Public Order Act," said Koome. 
 ALSO READ:

Is Kenya ripe for secession as per Kaluma Bill handed to electoral agency?

 The Nairobi police boss warned NASA supporters planning to cause fear and economic sabotage that he would deal them accordingly.
 "If you are thinking you will move around the CBD causing trouble, I will be there with enough officers to deal with you. That person who has mind and intention to cause fear, economic sabotage - that will not happen," he said.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Koome also assured residents of his commitment in ensuring that residents would be protected from any kind of harm.
 "This time everybody will carry his own cross but the job will be done. I want to assure our people ... don't live in fear, enjoy your existence as we are here to protect you everywhere in this city," he added.
 The NASA coalition on Monday invited supporters to a major rally at the Kamukunji Grounds in Kamukunji Constituency on Thursday, November 16.
 According to Siaya Senator James Orengo, former senators Boni Khalwale and Johnstone Muthama, the rally will be a dress rehearsal for the Friday grand welcome.
 “We welcome all Kenyans to this grand Thursday rally and the arrival party on Friday. All these are part of our continuing journey of ensuring electoral justice and putting an end to the evil culture of sham elections with pre-determined outcomes,” the NASA leaders said in a joint statement.
 Raila, who left the county on Tuesday last week, held several meetings in the US to explain the political stalemate in the country. 
 ALSO READ:

Mutahi Ngunyi: Raila Odinga has no plan

 On Thursday, the former Prime Minister addressed hundreds of attendants at the Centre for Strategic and International Studies in Washington where he hit out at foreign envoys in Kenya for supporting the election of President-elect Uhuru Kenyatta.
 Raila, who left the county on Tuesday last week, held a series of meetings in the US to explain the political stalemate in the country.
 On Thursday, the Opposition chief addressed hundreds of attendants at the Centre for Strategic and International Studies in Washington where he hit out at foreign envoys in Kenya for supporting the election of President-elect Uhuru Kenyatta.
 The former Prime Minister blamed the envoys for contributing towards the election crisis in the country.
 “The envoys efforts up to now have not succeeded in diffusing the crisis. Let me be blunt again. They sometimes have contributed to the problem.
 “I have come to Washington to convey a simple message: We need a fuller engagement from the many arms of governance that your country possesses to assist envoys based in Nairobi,” said Raila.
 
 ALSO READ:

How NASA plans to welcome Raila from US

