
 I have been mulling over the idea of inclusion. In fact, so disturbed have I been that I did a poll on my Facebook page and asked Kenyans to tell me whether they had ever benefited in an unfair way because “their man” was in high office. And 96 per cent answered ‘no’.  
 ALSO READ:

AfDB wants Kenya, Uganda help to recover RVR debt

 This result made me think critically; does Kenya have an inclusion problem? Secondly, is inclusion understood to be the idea that we need “our man” in power so that he can do for us what we are complaining “their man” is doing for them? Is inclusion a codeword for nepotism in high office? 
 Forgotten areas




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Truth be told, when we talk about inclusion, all we desire is an opportunity for us to fill Government and parastatal offices with our kin and few kith. We imagine that all Government offices are filled with relatives of the Cabinet Secretary in charge. We have peddled the lie that the home counties of our leaders are little gardens of Eden and the rest are hell holes by design and purpose. 
 I find this grossly wrong especially for the middle belt of Kenya. The only places in Kenya that can validly claim marginalisation are in the north of Kenya, what is considered the pastoral Rift Valley, and parts of Coast. These places can claim marginalisation because if you measure road network, access to water, education and health, these areas are least served. Any other county with roads, hospitals within a 20km radius, access to schools where children do not wake up yesterday to attend school today should realise that they are not marginalised, they are indeed active eaters of the proverbial cake. 
 Over the past 15 years, however, great strides have been made in this country; we have moved roads closer to the northern frontier, we have built air strips that actually work across the country.
 The SGR is now a staple of Coast to Nairobi travel, education at the basic level is free and from next year will be free to the secondary school level. We are becoming more inclusive as a nation, this is a fact that nearly every Kenyan can attest to; and it didn’t take a pastoralist president to take over for us to build the road to Garissa. Neither did we need a coastal vice president for SGR to be realised. 
 In fact, if we were to take a few examples, the Education Cabinet Secretary is Kisii. He has transformed the education sector in a very short time. He has changed how exams are done and has returned sanity to the sector. He did not do this for schools in Kisii only and neither did he favour his relatives in exams. And in him is the perfect example of inclusion: He included all of us in a good idea for Kenya. 
 Performers 
 ALSO READ:

KAA gets green light for Sh7b airport upgrade

 Inclusion isn’t about “our man” getting us jobs, it is about “the right man” doing his job right. It doesn’t matter to our students that the CS comes from a certain community. There were not 10 different KCPE examinations; there was just one that included all Kenyans. 
 In the same vein, if we were to look at the impact of Charles Keter in Energy where we have seen the electricity grid expand more than ever before in our history, we have also seen the cost of connectivity fall significantly. This is not true only for his backyard, it is true for the entire republic. 
 Amina Mohammed has also brought in so many dignitaries to discuss trade and the future of our nation on the international platform. She got Kenya to address the G7 meeting and we have held multiple international events in Kenya. 
 Raychelle Omamo, the Defence CS, has guided Kenya in the Somalia mission which is quite successful, in the sense that we have stayed longer and achieved more than any other single state in that area. Kenya is safer because of the work she has done, but as usual in security the best job is done when you don’t make the news. 
 James Macharia in Transport has delivered on the SGR, his ministry is working on the expansion of the Port in Kisumu, which will increase capacity in that city. Indeed the Lamu deep sea port will mean that larger vessels will be able to dock in the port, making it one of the best ports in Africa second only to Durban in South Africa. 
 Eugene Wamalwa in Water just launched projects in Ukambani and I am informed the Galana Project is slowly changing the environment there. In fact, it recorded a bumper harvest last year. It is important to note that Galana is not in Western Kenya. 
 The point I am making therefore is simple; inclusion is not “our man” being part of government. It is a government that works for us; a government that delivers service to all. It doesn’t matter to me what tribe someone comes from and indeed it shouldn’t matter to us all, it should only matter that they did the right thing in the right way. This should be our focus and not the last name. Merit and not heritage is the question of our times. 
 ALSO READ:

State mulls plan to split energy docket

 Mr Bichachi is a Communication Consultant.bichachi@gmail.com
