The excitement that normally accompanies the release of national examination results is behind us now. The victors have had ample time to savour their moments of glory while those who posted results below expectation have come to grips with the reality.
 What is indisputable, going by the assurance given by Education Cabinet secretary Fred Matiangi, is that the transition rate to secondary school will be 100 per cent. Those who did not excel at KCPE have a chance to prove they can do better in secondary school. 
 ALSO READ:

Medical covers for learners under free education

 There are circumstances that contributed to the poor performance in some schools in specific areas of the republic where, like in Elgeyo Marakwet, pupils at Toroko Primary School sat their exams while bandit raids were underway. The gunfire caused a lot of fear and uncertainty among the candidates.
 That, however, is just part of a long list of issues that need urgent attention by the Government, especially in making the playing field level for all learners irrespective of where they come from in the country. Under the present circumstances, schools in hardship and remote areas can hardly hope to compete with schools in urban areas.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Infrastructural development in all schools must be given priority. Learning under a tree, seated on the dusty ground or on uneven rocks without the benefit of desks is hardly conducive to learning. Mud-walled classes without windows or doors, often with leaky roofs, are a danger to learners as well.
 The unequal distribution of teachers in schools where some have more teachers than they require while others have as few as four teachers for over 300 pupils does not aid learning. The paucity of learning materials like textbooks, desks and sometimes lack of basics like chalk and blackboards, impact negatively on learning.
 The plight of the girl child from poor families, often distracted by domestic chores, the lack of sanitary pads during their menses and traditions that place little value on girls’ education, need urgent attention.
 Already, strides have been made towards bettering educational standards, but more still needs to be done in the areas that escape attention. A child in Turkana deserves the chance to compete with another in, say, Nairobi, on equal footing. Only then can we sit back and pat ourselves on the back.
