President Uhuru Kenyatta was sworn in on Tuesday at the Moi International Sports Complex Kasarani to officially begin his second and last term in office.
 Several heads of state, leaders and thousands of Kenyans attended the inauguration at the 60,000-seater Kasarani Stadium. 
 ALSO READ:

Seven-year-old boy shot dead as police clash with NASA supporters

 The swearing in ceremony was graced by one National Super Alliance (NASA) governor who skipped a planned memorial service at the Jacaranda grounds in Nairobi by the Opposition.
 Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok joined other leaders who witnessed President Uhuru and his deputy William Ruto as they took oath of office.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Several heads of state attended the inauguration at the 60,000-seater Kasarani. They were: South Sudan President Salva Kiir, Zambia president Edgar Lungu, Rwanda President Paul Kagame, Djibouti President Ismail Omar Guelleh, Botswana President Ian Khama, Ethiopian Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn, Uganda President Yoweri Museveni and Gabon President Ali Bongo.
 Others included; African Union Representative Pierre Buyoya and Rupiah Banda, Special envoys from Eritrea and Zambia, former Senegal Prime Minister Aminata Touré, Foreign Affairs Ministers from Palestine and India Algeria's Speaker of the National Assembly.
 Nanok had in October said that NASA supporters in Turkana would not participate in the repeat presidential election after Raila Odinga withdrew his candidature from the race.
 The governor called on the Head of State and Raila to dialogue and chaos in the country.
 “Whether we accept or deny it, this country is divided down middle even if the elections are held today. It’s only when as leaders we put our pride aside and come to the table that this conflict will be solved this,” he said.
 In August, Mr Nanok pledged to work closely with Uhuru’s government to implement projects in his county. 
 ALSO READ:

Raila announces swearing-in date

 The Council of Governors chairman said he would form a county government that was ready to work with the national government.
 Nanok of the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party garnered 73,232 votes against his main rival John Munyes of Jubilee who got 52,572 votes in the August 8 General Election.
 He also lauded the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) for what he termed as delivery of free and fair elections despite challenges.
