
 It was once a rallying call. A 21st Century affirmation that Africans were capable of independent growth and development. Shopping malls, sprawling residential estates, foreign food outlets and imported cars became hallmarks of cities across the continent. 
 ALSO READ:

Japanese martial arts Aikido seminar held in Nairobi 

 But in recent times, the ‘Africa Rising’ narrative has been battered from all sides. Despite forward movement that has seen upgrading of rail and road infrastructure and improved channels for regional and international trade, conflict, poverty, democracy struggles, and health and education challenges have convinced many that Africa is reeling. The truth however, is that Africa is neither rising, nor reeling. It is changing.
 Yes, every country faces economic and political challenges, but that is not the whole story. This became clearer to me when I attended Africa Media Initiative’s ZIMEO Awards for excellence in journalism in Addis Ababa, last week. The venue was fitting as Ethiopia is one of the fastest growing economies, something local and international media continue to spotlight. Despite the fact that booming economies should be recognised as key achievements, the awards widened the lens through which Africa is often viewed to include stories that are either dismissed as unworthy of reporting, or actively ignored.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 The cities of Africa are home to some of the most vibrant urban spaces. Young Africans are at the forefront of new technologies, and are wholly invested in developing the science that gives tech a sustainable platform.
 Africa is also beginning to appreciate the subterranean wealth of its nations. Sub-Saharan Africa has 10 per cent of the world’s oil reserves, 40 per cent of its gold, and up to 90 per cent of its chromium and platinum. Indeed, the extractive industry is poised to become the cornerstone of development. And this is not just a story about money, but also livelihoods and populations being empowered and/or destroyed. There is much to be said about pollution in Africa in a world that is struggling to come to terms with climate change. The old, high-carbon technologies need not become a static African reality.
 Universal access to renewable energy powered by wind and solar will allow the continent to leapfrog into new, clean technologies. Egypt, Ethiopia, Kenya, Morocco and South Africa are already leading the charge in the development of clean energy infrastructure. The energy story should be told loudly on the backdrop of what it means to Africa’s fragile but important wildlife and wildlands.
 Energy is huge, but so is conservation. Conservation is more than preserving wildlife populations or tourist attraction. It is a livelihood story because sustainable development hinges on the symbiotic co-existence of communities and the natural world. Africa Wildlife Foundation is leading the charge in this area by providing solutions that protect Africa’s wildlife, while at the same time ensuring that communities thrive.
 Africa is also home to 65 per cent of the world’s uncultivated arable land. Its future is therefore in its fields. Tanzania, for instance, is in the midst of a successful agricultural programme. Agriculture accounts for more than three-quarters of the labour force. It is a little-known fact that drones are deployed on Tanzanian farms for crop scouting purposes. Then there is population growth. Africa is the youngest continent, with a median age of 19.
 The population is expected to double to 2.5 billion by 2050. Nigeria has the fastest growing rate among the top ten most populous nations and it is expected to become the third most populous country in the world, overtaking the US, before 2050. This baby boon presents opportunities and challenges, but what is clear is that Africa must look beyond the ageing West for solutions to fulfill the promise of this group and reap the demographic dividend. And so Africa is not ‘rising’, nor is it reeling. Africa is changing. All that’s left is for African journalists to take this story to the world. It’s our story and we must tell it in our own words. 
 ALSO READ:

Form 1: How TSC plans to tackle burden on teachers

 - The writer is President of African Wildlife Foundation. ksebunya@awf.org
