Drama at a Narok Court after a man proclaiming to be a witchdoctor confessed that he slaughtered a Columbus monkey and performed rituals to enable a Member of County Assembly (MCA) clinch seat.
 Robert Mwongela who was a witness in a case where former Olposimoru Member of County Assembly (MCA) Wilson Masikonde (Jubilee) is challenging the victory of his successor Wilfred Kikaet Kuyo (ODM) said he was among the four sorcerers hired. 
 ALSO READ:

To stem exclusion, we should end presidential system

 Mwongela who hails from Kitui County told the court that he chose to testify against his ‘client’ after failing to honour the payment deal they had before the election.
 He said they had a deal with Kuyo that should he clinch the seat after the wizardly acts he shall pay him a sum of Sh500,000 but after winning he declined to pay the debt but only gave him paltry Sh20,000.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 He told the court that he travelled to Narok at a later date to demand for his full pay but was only given Sh3, 000 as his bus fare to go back to Kitui thus angering him.
 While testifying before Narok Court Principal Magistrate who is also the Deputy Registrar of the High Court Tito Gesora he performed the 12-hour ritual on August 2, 2018 at the home of the MCA.
 “On that night, I slaughtered a black Columba monkey in the homestead of my client and made him to lie naked in his compound. Later, I applied the blood of the monkey mixed with its fur and herbs on his body,” he narrated in the fully-packed court room.
 Asked on how they caught the Columbus monkey, the sorcerer told the court that he gave the MCA a charm that attracted the monkey to his compound where he tied his legs and took it to his home for the ritual.
 He said he tied the monkey skin around the waist and wrist of Kuyo so as to woo people to his side as well as to make those who came in contact with him to vote in his favour.
 The witchdoctor said the move worked ‘magic’. 
 ALSO READ:

Uhuru is not Kenya's problem and neither is Raila the answer

 The wizard who supported his argument with video clips in court as evidence of his acts stunned the court when he chest-thumbed that his germ has worked marvels in favour of many sitting Governors, senators and Members of Parliament who are his clients.
 He alleged he inherited his ‘jujus’ from his father 20 years ago who gave him a cap with fur of an animal he doesn’t know and some herbs that he would use while doing the wizardly acts.
 Earlier long, Kikaet told the court today that the elections were free and fair and no one was influenced either through witchcraft, bribery or any other form of manipulation to vote for him
 In his affidavit, the ODM MCA claims that the case filed against him by the Jubilee aspirant Wilson Letulal Ole Masikonde who lost, was not brought to court in good faith and wants the court to dismiss the petition in its entirety, saying it’s based on rumors and hearsay.
