Rehema Katana stares at the walls of the paediatric ward at Kenyatta National Hospital (KNH). 
 She misses home, she says, and wonders when she will finally be able to rejoin her three siblings in Kilifi County.
 The 12-year-old girl has been in the hospital for the past two months. She has not gone to school this year. And she may not be going back next year either, unless a miracle happens.
 It all began last year, when she was mistakenly put on medication for tuberculosis for months before her health started to deteriorate.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 She had developed a swelling on the neck and breathing became difficult as the lump grew bigger. Doctors at a Kilifi hospital maintained that she had TB.
 The Standard carried the exclusive story on September 18 this year, prompting the Ministry of Health to intervene.
 Health Cabinet Secretary Cleopa Mailu facilitated Rehema’s travel to Nairobi on September 27 for treatment at KNH.
 At the time, Dr Mailu could not comment on Rehema’s previous diagnosis, saying she needed further evaluation. However, he assured the family that he would do everything possible to ease the girl’s pain.
 “I can’t speak on the results as it could be right or a misdiagnosis. However, they should come to Kenyatta, where she will be evaluated and treated for free,” said Mailu.
 By then, Rehema's mother Betty Katana had exhausted all her savings on TB treatment before doctors said her daughter was suffering from something else. 
 The assurance, from no less than a senior Government official, came as a relief.
 Rehema arrived at KNH with a letter to Ministry of Health Director for Corporate Services Bernard Githae, and treatment commenced.
 The single mother of four, who does menial jobs to fend for her family, stayed with her child at the hospital, leaving the rest with her parents. All along, she was counting on the Cabinet secretary’s word.
 Two months later, she was surprised when the hospital slapped her with a Sh179 884 bill.
 Last week, the Health CS promised to speak with the hospital administration about Rehema’s bill. But there has been no communication since then and the bill is growing.
 “I simply do not know what to do with it. I have been advised to try the social welfare office for debt management,” said Ms Katana.
 She said she and her family had received Sh15,000 from local welfare groups, neighbours and friends, but had no way of repaying it or raising additional funds.
 Speaking to The Standard yesterday, Health Principal Secretary Julius Korir asked for a copy of the hospital bill.
 Meanwhile, Rehema can do nothing else but stare at the walls of the children's ward and pray that the Government officials will keep their word.
