The Opposition stronghold of Nyanza remained calm Tuesday as President Uhuru Kenyatta took the oath of office to begin his second term.
 Contrary to the reactions witnessed when the Supreme Court upheld Uhuru’s win last week, major towns remained deserted, affecting businesses. 
 ALSO READ:

Gideon steals limelight as he welcomes VIPs

 There was, however, heavy police presence reported in Kisumu, Migori, Siaya and Homa Bay counties, where it was feared violence could break out.
 Even though there was violence reported in parts of Nairobi following the planned National Super Alliance (NASA) rally at Jacaranda grounds in Eastlands, Kisumu’s Kondele, which has witnessed violence in the past, remained calm.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 The calm followed a stern warning by Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o through an executive order in which he outlawed demonstrations not approved by the county government, following the recent spate of destruction and disruption of business during street demonstrations.
 Police deployment
 Nyanza Regional Police Commander Lewnard Katana confirmed yesterday that there was adequate police deployment to handle any chaotic reactions following the inauguration.
 “So far we have not reported any incidents, but we are alert to any reactions following the swearing-in,” said Mr Katana.
 On Monday evening, residents of Kisumu and Migori had reported the deployment of police officers in preparation for any eventualities after the swearing-in ceremony in Nairobi, given that NASA leader Raila Odinga has declared that the Opposition would not recognise Uhuru as President.
 NASA boycotted the October 26 repeat presidential election that saw declared Uhuru the winner. 
 ALSO READ:

Uhuru promises to heal rift, serve all without bias

 “We saw two lorries ferrying police officers into the town and we felt they were meant to intimidate us,” said Samson Owino, a resident of Kondele.
 Most streets in Kisumu town were empty.
 At Lwang’ni Beach, which is one of the major eating and leisure spots in the town, things were quiet; leisure boat operators said their businesses had been affected.
