The Kakamega and Bungoma county assemblies are the latest to pass the motion on the People’s Assembly.
 In Kakamega, the motion sailed through easily with the help of National Super Alliance (NASA) Members of the County Assembly. There were only two Jubilee Party legislators to oppose the motion and term it illegal. 
 ALSO READ:

KCSE candidate dies while sitting exam in hospital

 Moving the motion, Leader of Majority Joel Ongoro said the people’s assembly was the only legal means the electorate had to solve the problems that bedevilled the country every electioneering period.
 Mr Ongoro claimed the August 8 and October 26 presidential elections conducted by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) were illegal, unconstitutional and undemocratic.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 He further said the assembly would not recognise the Jubilee administration.
 “The executive authority by the President has in past years reintroduced the trappings of an imperial presidency and despotic tendencies in the conduct of public affairs. What we are agitating for is a pathway that will ensure the rights and freedoms of Kenyans provided for in the Constitution are respected,” he said.
 In the Bungoma county assembly, the NASA and Jubilee camps moved outside the chambers to address the press on their decisions to back their respective camps.
 Walked out
 The Jubilee MCAs had earlier walked out after their attempt to oppose the motion failed, and they proceeded to have a press conference outside the debating chambers.
 Led by Leader of Minority Francis Chemion, the MCAs said they had opposed the motion because it contravened the law. 
 ALSO READ:

NASA rallies more counties, says referendum inevitable

 While they were still addressing the press, Opposition-affiliated MCAs walked out of the chambers after the House adjourned, chanting NASA slogans and also taunting their Jubilee counterparts.
 They moved past the Jubilee MCAs and proceeded to call the press for their own statement a few metres from where the others stood, led by Leader of Majority Florence Wekesa.
 The Jubilee MCAs then started consulting among themselves on the way forward concerning the motion. Some also taunted the Opposition ward reps.
