Cholera has swept across Mombasa following recent rains and flooding, killing two and leaving 25 others hospitalised.
 Officials confirmed a mother and her child died of cholera at Makande, forcing mass testing of residents who suffered similar symptoms. 
 ALSO READ:

How packaging can help address food insecurity

 And officials indicated the deaths occurred at home in Makande on Tuesday.
 Authorities and health experts said they were isolating patients and treating borehole water to stop the spread of the disease.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 County Executive for Health Hazel Koitaba and her chief officer Khadija Shikely confirmed the outbreak and said they had taken measures to stop its spread.
 Ms Koitaba said immediately the two deaths were reported, authorities isolated patients in Majengo who were Wednesday being transferred to a clinic Mwembe Tayari.
 “Following the two deaths, we tested 80 people and 25 were positive for cholera while the rest had diarrhoea cases,” Ms Koitaba said.
 Health authorities embarked on sensitising the public to curb the disease.
 Koitaba said they were treating borehole water, particularly in slum areas, to prevent further infection.
 Dr Shikely said she had shared the information on the outbreak with county authorities for action. 
 ALSO READ:

City residents disregard hygiene to savour cheaper street-side food

 Sources blamed the outbreak of the disease on recent heavy rains and challenges in collection of garbage in the city lately.
 Rains pounded the Coast region this month leading to heavy flooding, rendering it difficult to clear garbage in parts of the town.
 And a new cholera infection has been reported in Kamurugu, Mbeere South sub-county this week.
 County Health Director Stephen Kaniaru said they were on high alert, with the newest case reported on Tuesday.
 The number of cholera infections in the county now stands at 47. The first case was reported on October 21.
 The disease has led to the death of three people – one from Kanduri in Embu East and two from Mbeere South.
 Dr Kaniaru said the victims delayed to seek treatment. 
 ALSO READ:

Kainuk Bridge collapses barely two weeks after repair

 Two of the deaths and 27 of the infections were reported in October.
 "Tests done to water samples that were taken from water sources and home taps and taken to the Government Chemist and Water Resource Management Authority (Warma) laboratories revealed that most of the water sources had been contaminated with faecal matter. From the tests, the likely cause of outbreak is water and not food," he said.
 Speaking during World Toilet Day celebrations in Kanduri village, Embu East sub-county, Kaniaru said cholera was still evident in the county since the beginning of this month.
 He said cholera treatment centres were still operational at the Embu Level Five Hospital and Kiritiri, Gategi and Siakago health centres.
 The official raised alarm over the high number of families that did not have latrines, especially in Mbeere North sub-county.
 Through the County Health Department and the development arm of the Catholic Church (Caritas), 86 villages in Mbeere North have since dug latrines.
 The project is set to be extended to other parts where open defecation is also common.
 newsdesk@standardmedia.co.ke
 
 ALSO READ:

Two people die after cholera outbreak in Embu

