President-elect Uhuru Kenyatta has now called on the Opposition leader Raila Odinga to sit down and dialogue.
 Speaking at the Redeemed Gospel Church in Huruma on Sunday, President-elect Uhuru said that through dialogue most of the problems Kenyans face would be solved amicably. 
 ALSO READ:

Dialogue: Now Uhuru reaches out to Raila

 Uhuru added that if the two political factions maintain their hardline stances, the country would be plunged into chaos and bloodshed.
  “Let them continue with their lives as we debate the merits and demerits of our different programmes. Kenyans do not want to shed blood or to be enjoined in political arguments but to live together in unity. In a democracy we must compete. But we do not compete based on dialect. We don’t compete based on colour. We compete on ideas. If we have differences it is okay in the political world.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “That’s why we compete because we do things differently but that does not mean we cannot live and coexist. Let us work out how we plan our different agendas without affecting the daily lives of the people,” he said.
 The Head of State pointed out that it is normal to compete for political positions but the competition should not be based on ethnicity, race or tribe but ideas that will lift the lives of Kenyans.
 “And like in any competition, there will be winners and losers but in terms of the election we are all winners as Kenyans. Our responsibility after the political competition is to come together and work to build the nation,” Uhuru stated.
 Deputy President William Ruto urged Kenyans to turn a deaf ear on those preaching hate, negative ethnicity and divisive politics.
 “Today, let us all resolve that we will refuse hate, resist negative ethnicity and reject divisive politics so that we can live together as one people – the people of the great nation of Kenya,” the DP Ruto.
 The National Super Alliance (NASA) leaders have, however, maintained that they will not engage in any dialogue since the repeat presidential elections was not free, fair and credible. 
 ALSO READ:

Storm over plea to axe Devolution CS Kiunjuri

 Raila took a swipe at Uhuru following the alleged shooting of his supporters last week.
 Speaking at Laico Regency Hotel on Friday, Raila asked the President and the Jubilee Government to arrest, detain or prosecute him if the regime thinks he is the problem.
 "If Raila Odinga is the problem, arrest Raila. If Raila Odinga is the problem, detain Raila. If Raila Odinga is the problem, prosecute Raila. If Raila Odinga is the problem, imprison Raila. And ultimately if Raila Odinga is the problem, shoot Raila to death then,” said the Former Prime Minister.
 NASA leader accused the police of using excessive force killing innocent Kenyans.
 You don't go shooting innocent people who only came to receive Raila Odinga. What have these young kids done to you? Mr Kenyatta, he who lives by the bullet dies by the bullet.
 NASA held a fundraiser on Friday evening at the Laico Regency, Nairobi.
 According to the coalition, the funds would be directed towards funeral expenses of supporters who died during Raila’s return. 
 ALSO READ:

Leaders ask President Uhuru to unite country after swearing in ceremony 

