The National Super Alliance (NASA) has unveiled a new Airtel Paybill number to fundraise for supporters who have died across the country.  
 According to the coalition, the funds contributed would meet funeral expenses for victims allegedly shot by police across the country. 
 ALSO READ:

How NASA plans to honour fallen supporters

 The new Paybill number is Airtel Money No. 303 101.
 “#NASAAngelFund Paybill number is Airtel Money No. 303 101. Contributions to this will assist in meeting funeral expenses for victims of police killings across the country. We have victims from Nyanza, Western, Ukambani, Kisii, Meru & Nyandarua. Acc. No. Is your NAME,” said Philip Etale, ODM Director of Communication in a statement on Saturday.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 #NASAAngelFund Paybill number is Airtel Money No. 303 101. Contributions to this will assist in meeting funeral expenses for victims of police killings across the country. We have victims from Nyanza, Western, Ukambani, Kisii, Meru & Nyandarua. Acc. No. Is your NAME.
— Philip Etale (@EtalePhilip) November 25, 2017  
 The Opposition had before the August 8 General Election set up a Safaricom Paybill number (991444) that was to help fundraise and push for a Raila presidency.
 Days after the October 26 repeat presidential election, NASA asked supporters to boycott products and services by Safaricom, Brookside and Bidco as part of the resistance movement.
 NASA leaders noted the boycott was part of the economic liberation scheme supported by the People's Assembly.
 Opposition leader Raila Odinga took a swipe at President-elect Uhuru Kenyatta following the alleged shooting of his supporters last week. 
 ALSO READ:

Tough balancing act as Uhuru plans his Cabinet

 Speaking at Laico Regency Hotel on Friday, Raila asked President-elect Uhuru and the Jubilee Government to arrest, detain or prosecute him if the regime thinks he was the problem.
 "If Raila Odinga is the problem, arrest Raila. If Raila Odinga is the problem, detain Raila. If Raila Odinga is the problem, prosecute Raila. If Raila Odinga is the problem, imprison Raila. And ultimately if Raila Odinga is the problem, shoot Raila to death then,” said the Former Prime Minister.
 The National Super Alliance (NASA) leader accused the police of using excessive force killing innocent Kenyans.
 You don't go shooting innocent people who only came to receive Raila Odinga. What have these young kids done to you? Mr Kenyatta, he who lives by the bullet dies by the bullet.
 Raila on Saturday (November 18) accused police of killing 15 NASA supporters during his return from the US.
 Raila condemned the officers saying the brutality meted on his supporters was unnecessary since it was a peaceful procession aimed at welcoming him from the trip.
 “Not a single one of you will be forgotten. You did not die in vain. You sacrificed your lives for the cause of democracy as it gave you the freedom to choose your leaders and determine the direction of your country,” the NASA leader said at Okoa Kenya offices in Nairobi. 
 ALSO READ:

Uhuru calls on Raila to attend his swearing in

