I must confess I usually get mixed feelings on inauguration days. On the one hand, as a patriotic Kenyan, I feel immense pride as I watch a democratically elected president being sworn in.
 With the eyes of the world upon us, it is extremely moving to witness Kenya celebrating the will of the people with an elegant ceremony. At the same time, I cannot help feeling a sense of trepidation. It is often said that “You campaign in poetry. You govern in prose”, and inauguration day is the final day for poetry, before the hard work of Government begins. 
 ALSO READ:

Museveni confirms he will attend Uhuru’s swearing in

 Although I am far from naïve, I am always saddened when the beautiful vision of the campaign gives way for something more prosaic and pragmatic. 
 But when I look ahead to today’s ceremony, I cannot help but feel that this year is different. Of course, the pride is there.

 


(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Multitude
 The 60,000 Kenyans expected at the Kasarani Stadium and many others around the country will be treated to a magically Kenyan spectacle – splendid, but not opulent, with the Government wisely opting to divert resources from the ceremony to its social and economic reforms.
 The ceremony will also be graced by at least 11 heads of state, with dozens more sending senior representation, showing again the significance of Kenya and representing a vote of confidence in our president.
 But while my pride is accompanied by apprehension, this year I feel excitement. For the first time, I am not worried about hope giving way to disappointment, or principle giving way to compromise and political deals.This unexpected feeling of hope can be put down to three elements. 
 First is the bold agenda outlined by President Kenyatta during the campaign, which is both ambitious and concrete. Centred on a vision of building a broad-based, inclusive and modern economy that transforms Kenya into a middle-income nation by 2030, Uhuru stood out from the pack by clearly articulating how he will achieve this.
 He committed to creating 1.3 million jobs each year, building 500,000 new homes over the next five years, ensuring each citizen is connected to reliable electricity by 2020, expanding free maternity care, and expanding the free public school programme to include free public secondary schools.  
 ALSO READ:

What Kenyans expect Uhuru to deliver within 100 days in office

 These are not just the throwaway promises that citizens across the world have become all too accustomed to, but rather a serious of concrete, policy offerings that will have a major impact on living standards. 
 “So what”, I hear the sceptics say. “However concrete and achievable, Uhuru is hardly the first politician to make promises in an election campaign”. 
 And these people are right. It isn’t the nature of these commitments themselves that give cause for optimism, but rather the track record of the man issuing them. This is a man who unlike other politicians, is reluctant to make promises, and when he does, he delivers. Uhuru Kenyatta is a man of his word. 
 Achievements
 Just look at his first term. Despite inheriting an unprecedented raft of social, economic and security challenges that forced the government to re-adjust targets and prioritise stability, Kenyatta was able to score some major achievements. 
 He committed to free maternal healthcare, and today more than three times of our mothers can afford to deliver in hospitals. He promised to connect more Kenyans to the national grid, and in four short years doubled the number of households with electricity. 
 He promised to make government work for the people, and through the innovative Huduma Centres leveraged technology to reform service delivery. 
 ALSO READ:

Five roads in Nairobi to be closed today

 He promised to connect the country, and alongside a majorly improved road network, delivered the Madaraka Express which cut transit times, increased connectivity, and will spearhead a new chapter of industrialisation. 
 Excitement
 The third, and perhaps most important reason for the optimism that I believe many Kenyans feel goes beyond even our president’s track record. It comes down to his character.
 From his name, given to him in anticipation of Kenya’s independence to his political career, Uhuru is Mr. Kenya. A man prepared to lead Kenya.
 His dignified and unifying conduct over the turbulent last few months, accepting the unprecedented ruling of the Supreme Court even though it went against him, is further evidence of him putting the national interest first. 
 Let all patriotic Kenyans stand tall and proud, and get behind our president and he leads us into the future. Happy inauguration day!
  Ms Mghongo, an architect, is an MBA student, University of Nairobi
