The Government has warned city residents to brace for traffic disruptions today during President-elect Uhuru Kenyatta’s swearing in.
 At least five major roads in the Central Business District will be closed to users other than Government officials and dignitaries who are expected to attend the inauguration. 
 ALSO READ:

Raila dares Uhuru to imprison him

 Nairobi Police Commander Japheth Koome said Mombasa Road, Wangari Maathai Road, Museum hill and Thika Superhighway will be closed during the ceremony.
 Regarding the National Super Alliance (NASA) holding a public rally during the swearing in, Mr Koome said that the coalition had not complied with the set guidelines in law.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 "It’s clearly indicated in the Public Order Act Chapter 56 that if anybody intends to hold a public gathering, you must inform the local OCS. But up to this moment, nobody at all has notified any of my station commanders about any other meeting on Tuesday.
 "We are not aware about it. We have not been notified. So, whoever thinks he has intentions to do that [and] he does not involve police, why don’t you tell that person that the law will deal with such a situation firmly?" the Nairobi police boss stated.
 The President on Friday invited Opposition leader Raila Odinga for his inauguration.
 The Head of State also invited other presidential candidates who participated in the August 8 General Election and October 26 repeat presidential election.
 “The seven other presidential candidates and their running mates in the last presidential election have been invited for the ceremony,” Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua said on Friday.
 Mr Kinyua urged the Opposition to cancel its plan to swear in Raila and engage the Government in issues affecting Kenyans. 
 ALSO READ:

How NASA plans to honour fallen supporters

 "As a people who would want us to move together as one, we will plead that it is not necessary to have any other public function that day. We can bring out the issues we want discussed later.  We should all work towards a cohesive, united Kenyan society," said Kinyua.
 Kinyua is the chairman of the 22-member Assumption of Office of the President Committee.
 The Supreme Court unanimously upheld the re-election of Uhuru paving way for his swearing in for second term in office.
 The court nullified the August 8 election on account of illegalities and irregularities.
 Among the faults found by the highest court in the land is lack of proper transmission system and at the same time use of forms which did not have security features.
 The court unanimously upheld President Uhuru’s re-election throwing out the petitions on grounds that they were not merited.
 
 ALSO READ:

Tough balancing act as Uhuru plans his Cabinet

