
 Leaders across the political divide have sent their condolences to the family of the late Nyeri Governor Wahome Gakuru who perished in a tragic road accident at Kabati along Thika- Murang’a Road on Tuesday morning. 
 ALSO READ:

Governor Wahome Gakuru in grisly road accident (photos)

 President-elect Uhuru Kenyatta expressed his shock and grief on his official twitter handle following the sudden demise of Nyeri’s third Governor Wahome Gakuru.
 “I have learnt with profound shock of the death of the Nyeri Governor, Dr Wahome Gakuru, following a tragic road accident at Kabati,” said the President.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Uhuru said he was a committed, visionary and tireless leader.
 “Governor Gakuru was a great leader and an action-oriented man who – upon his victory in the August 8 election – did not waste time but embarked on serving the people of Nyeri with diligence and commitment. We grieve with all of you,” he added.
 Deputy President William Ruto while at Lee Funeral Home, where the late had been taken to, said accidents are leading cause of death in the country. He sent his condolences to the family and Nyeri residents.
 Ruto also announced that ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru, Nyeri Deputy Governor Mutahi Kahiga and Senator Ephraim Maina will be in charge of the funeral arrangements.
 In a press statement the Council of Governors termed the death as a loss eulogising the late Dr Wahome Gakuru as a visionary leader and brilliant policy maker.
 “The late Wahome Gakuru who was the third Governor of Nyeri County was a brilliant policy maker and among the team that developed the vision 2030 strategic plan. The Council of Governors has lost a visionary leader,” read part of the statement. 
 ALSO READ:

Six people perish in accident involving 10 vehicles near Salgaa

 Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko said he was deeply saddened by the death of Governor Gakuru that has left the nation in shock. He described him as a courageous, joyous and hardworking leader.
 Former Head of CORD Secretariat Eliud Owalo has also grieved the death of Dr Gakuru describing it as a tragic loss to the Kenyan professional community.
 “Governor Gakuru’s untimely death is a tragic loss to the Kenyan professional community. Reluctantly, I have now come to terms with the sad reality that Dr Wahome Gakuru is no more and send my heartfelt message of condolence to the family, friends, the County Government of Nyeri, the Council of Governors, and the Kenyan professional fraternity at large,” said Owalo.
 Mr. Gakuru died in a tragic road accident on Tuesday morning at Kabati, along Thika-Murang'a road while heading to Nairobi for a talk show.
 Police said the road crash was as a result of tyre burst and heavy downpour. 
