A Double M driver of the bus torched in Mathare early Sunday morning has revealed the horrific experience he went through before irate youth set the vehicle ablaze.
 According to Hector Osienyo, he woke as usual to carry out his Sunday routine of ferrying worshippers to the Winners Chapel Church in Nairobi before he was blocked by youths armed with crude weapons at his first pick-up point in Mathare. 
 ALSO READ:

NASA MP injured in Baba Dogo

 Here is what happened in his own words…
 “I was doing my usual pickup from different estates ready to ferry church goers to the Winners Chapel in Nairobi. When I drove to Mathare North, I found roads blocked and I had to find an alternative route.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “The new route was blocked by a crowd of young men carrying machetes and stones and they ordered me out of the vehicle. They then demanded to know my tribe.
 “They smashed windows of the vehicle, harassed, robbed passengers and burnt the vehicle. I boarded a boda boda to Huruma Police Station to report the incident.
 “No one was hurt in the incident, but I was slapped with a panga on my cheek,” a tensed Mr Osienyo told Standard Digital.
 Express Connection (Double M) CEO and proprietor, Mary Wangari, condemned the incident and blamed politicians for the incident.
  “It is very sad that our country is turning to what it is now, loss of property, lives and we keep on wondering what for? I think we are getting deeper into a critical situation.
 “If you can’t run your business peacefully, then there is no freedom. The people we are all fighting for are comfortable somewhere. 
 ALSO READ:

Jubilee drags Wetang’ula’s name in Mumias woes

 “What we need is peace, to conduct our daily routines. How many people are going to lose bread….there’s a driver, conductor, a mechanic who repairs that bus and a fuel attendant,” an agitated Wangari lamented.
  
 Bus set on fire in Mathare slum.
(Photo: Courtesy)  
  
  
   
 ALSO READ:

Matiang’i calls for peace ahead of Supreme Court ruling 

 Tension remained high in the slum after the death of four people in Riverside area, Ruaraka sparked protests.
 The four, among them a woman are reported to have been killed by unknown assailants.
 According to Nairobi Police Commander Japheth Koome, calm was restored and investigations launched.
 Addressing a press conference, Mr Koome said that they had intensified police patrols within the area.
 He further warned politicians against inciting locals to violence asking them to preach peace or face arrest.
 The residents torched three public service vehicles and blocked Outering Road in the early Sunday incident.
 Area Member of Parliament Tom Kajwang’ condemned the killings and called on the police to arrest the assailants.
 "I want to grieve with our people and also to tell Matiang’i and the police to carefully handle this matter bearing in mind that ICC is watching," Mr Kajwang’ said from Kisumu.
 
 ALSO READ:

Raila: Those who perished during Nairobi chaos will not be forgotten

