The political rift which ensued following the fresh presidential election on October 26 played out in Parliament on Tuesday after it was forced to adjourn a day after it resumed sittings. The MPs had just returned from another break they took last month to campaign in the repeat elections. And because House committees are yet to be constituted, they had to proceed on yet another recess. House committees run the business of Parliament.
 The committees process motions, bills and petitions. That won't happen. 
 ALSO READ:

Why Uhuru Kenyatta will get the full mandate of Kenyan people on October 26th

 An example is the Division of Revenue Bill that has remained stuck. Consequently, county governments have been denied much-needed cash.
 It is not hard to contemplate what this portends for the country and its politics. Of late, Parliament and Kenya’s politics in general, has been a near text-book case of the grotesque abuse of power by a self-righteous and self-conceited cabal. Parliament is manifestly weak, directionless at the beck and call of the Executive. It is unconscionable for them to draw hefty perks for no work done.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Alas, the leadership in Parliament is anything but forceful. The Speaker is a dour figure who is seemingly unable to inspire confidence and not in control of both sides of the House. While Aden Duale, the Leader of the Majority, is arguably, the most divisive figure around. In fact, no sooner had Parliament been constituted than he unleashed a plot "to fix" constitutional office holders he and his party hierarchy deemed unfriendly.
 This is the time when the moral voice of the peoples’ representatives would have been heard rallying the country together.
 Yet the absence of leadership doesn’t deny any other MP the opportunity to step forward and lead. That none of the over 300 men and women could step forward to lead is an indictment of our self-absorbed, pampered parliamentarians.
 Left to their own ways, MPs have been self-promoting and populist. Some of what goes on in Parliament is completely repugnant. Venal MPs have transformed the august House into a gladiatorial arena of partisan and tribal politics.
 Unless politicians raise the level of their game, they will not be worthy of the title honourable. Yet it is foolhardy to rest the entire destiny of Kenya in the hands of some 300 people debating “good intentions”.
 No, it will take the unanimity of purpose from all Kenyans. 
 ALSO READ:

Duale: NASA must be held responsible for the looting, injuries during demos

