A Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) examinations candidate was allegedly stabbed to death by his wife in Ikuu village, Meru County. Witnesses say Jacob Mithika, 35, suffered deep cut wounds after his wife stabbed him with a knife following a domestic brawl. He died while being rushed to Maua Methodist Hospital.
 Boniface Mutwiri, who took the deceased to hospital, said Mithika had five cuts and was bleeding profusely. 
 ALSO READ:

Students charged over exam leakage

 The attack happened after he returned home from Karumaru day Secondary School where he had sat his examinations. Witnesses said the two were heard quarrelling at their shop in Abuuri market before tragedy struck.
 “We met the two fighting, he had asked his wife about some Sh20,000 that he had given her but she told him to stop beating her. However, when he let go of her, she grabbed the knife that they were selling at their shop and stabbed him several times. She threatened to attack us before she fled,” said Rodgers Munene a witness.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Brother to the deceased, Simon Mutua who is also the assistant chief for Ikuu sub location said Mithika and his wife had a troubled marriage.
 “Trouble started when my brother decided to go to back to school despite his age and status as a family man. The wife feared that if her husband got an education and a good job he would dump her and marry another woman,” said Mutua.
 Mutua said his brother’s wife had even attempted to block him from seating for the final exams and it took the family’s intervention to make her calm down.
 Mithika joined Form One in 2014.
 His first born daughter is in Form Two while the last born, a boy is in class five.
 Meanwhile, neighbours also claim that the suspect — who is still at large—had earlier attacked and cut another woman whom she suspected of having an affair with her husband at Kimongoro village. 
 ALSO READ:

How technical subjects help school raise grade

 [Darlington Manyara]   
