The Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) has braved the depressed activities on the bourse to raise Sh6 million for funding charity works.
 The amount, an improvement from last year’s Sh5.8 million, now brings to Sh13 million the amount of money the bourse has raised in the annual event dubbed ‘NSE Charity Trading Day.’ 
 ALSO READ:

Investors lose Sh20 billion at NSE amid high political stakes

 On Friday, 18 celebrities joined market participants in making calls to clients on behalf of market dealers to encourage them to make trade in support of charity. Part of the money was also raised from sponsors and Kenyans through a pay bill number.
 Speaking during the event in which Standard Group was the official media sponsor, NSE Chief Executive Geoffrey Odundo said the event was in line with United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “Stock exchanges are robust engines of commerce, proficiently adapted to raise and sustain capital. But they are also change agents; through initiatives like this, we provide a link between people, planet and profit,” said Odundo.
 The bourse is a member of the UN Sustainable Stock Exchanges initiative, and has been tasked with building a resilient, sustainable economy that optimises the quality of life for all.
 According to NSE chairman Samuel Kimani, transforming lives is at the heart of NSE’s sustainability strategy. “For many organiations and even in our discussions, the focus has been on economic development. But there must be more than that and that is why we choose to support those committed to addressing social ills,” said Mr Kimani.
 Among this year’s beneficiaries, from an event which attracted 22 sponsors, is Borana Conservancy, a non-profit organisation dedicated to the sustainable conservation of habitat and wildlife. SOS Children’s Village and Joy Children’s Home, who take care of children, will also benefit from the proceeds. In addition, Genevieve Audrey Foundation, which counsels and supports sexually abused children, will also benefit.
 Yesterday, equity turnover rose by 224.37 per cent to Sh519.5 million from Thursday’s Sh160 million. 
 
 ALSO READ:

Gupta brothers accused of corruption

