A couple of Asian origin was murdered by unknown assailants and bodies dumped in a 10-foot septic tank behind their house in Ndonya village, Mtwapa.
 Kilifi District Criminal Investigation Officer Christopher Chesoli said the couple was reported missing on Sunday morning. 
 ALSO READ:

IEBC official arrested for abandoning ballot boxes

 He said residents found the bodies of Abdalla Mohiddin Abdulla, 64, and his wife Rukiya Mohiddin, 62, in a septic tank, a few metres from the couple’s palatial home.
 Four workers - a cleaner, a gardener and two men who milk cows at the home - have since been missing.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “Investigations are still underway to unravel the people who murdered the couple,” said Mr Chesoli.
 He further said the workers who disappeared were being treated as prime suspects.
 A joint operation by police officers from Kilifi and Mombasa fire fighters to retrieve the decomposed bodies took over two hours.
 According to Omar Sheriff, one of the family members, the couple owned dairy cattle and had lived on their seven-acre land for over 20 years.
 Car abandoned
 Sherrif alleged after the incident, one of the workers was spotted driving the couple’s Toyota car which was later found abandoned on the Malindi-Mombasa highway. 
 ALSO READ:

Kilifi NASA leaders allege Jubilee plot to detain them

 It is also believed the assailants ransacked the house and stole some expensive electronics.
 The couple is survived by three children. Two are in the United States while one lives in the United Kingdom.
 Before his retirement, Abdalla was an engineer at Bamburi.
 The bodies were taken to Pandya Hospital for postmortem examination before they were later buried at Sarigoi Cemetery in Mombasa town.
 Meanwhile, a man died and four others sustained serious injuries in separate road accidents along the Voi-Taveta and Nairobi-Mombasa highways in Taita-Taveta County.
 The police said the first accident occurred at Chakaleri in Mwatate sub-county while the second happened near Maungu Township. Both accident scenes are regarded as black spots.
 One of the accidents involved a bus belonging to Technical University of Mombasa.In the first accident, County Police Commander Fred Ochieng said a man died and a passenger sustained injuries when the Toyota carina he was driving hit a culvert on the road side along the Mwatate-Voi road.
 In the second incident which occurred at Pipeline near Maungu town, the university bus rammed a stationary truck injuring passengers.
 Stalled lorry
 He said the lorry had stalled along the Nairobi-Mombasa highway.
 “It is my advice to motorists driving along the highways to avoid speeding at night because of the frequent broken down trailers whose owners at times leave them in the middle of the road unattended.
 “Equally, the drivers of heavy commercial vehicles are advised to carry with them life savers to warn motorist approaching from either direction in case of any breakdown,” said Ochieng.
 newsdesk@standardmedia.co.ke
