Police in Kericho County have arrested one main suspect behind the killing of two people during a stock theft raid at Koru area in Muhoroni constituency, Kisumu County.
 Kericho East Officer Commanding Police Division Justus Kitetu said 42-year old David Tergech was arrested around Pechulelach area in Poywek sub-location, Ainamoi constituency. 
 ALSO READ:

Youths take over peace initiatives along Kisumu-Kericho border

 The suspect and his accomplices crossed over to Koru from Kabarus in Ainamoi constituency where they committed the gruesome murders before stealing 13 goats during the Tuesday 1am incident.
 “We have managed to also recover four of the goats which were stolen during the raid. We are interrogating the suspect in police custody with the view of arresting his accomplices and arraigning them in court for their crimes.” said Kitetu.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Muhoroni Deputy  County Commissioner (DCC), Lotiatia Kipkech  said the deceased from Choria area in Koru, were shot using arrows by the raiders believed to be from the neighbouring Kabarus village.
 “One of the deceased was the goats’ owner. He was shot on the chest as he tried to fend off the intruders, the second victim was shot as he responded to distress calls by his neighbour,” he said.
 Kipkech added that the deceased were pronounced dead at Koru mission hospital where they had been rushed for treatment.
 Kericho East Deputy County Commissioner (DCC) Stanslous Apwokha asked Nyumba Kumi initiative members to be alert over security issues.
 “Security begins with the people at the grassroots. Identify the criminals living among you and surrender them to security agencies for action to be taken,” he said.
 Apwokha and Kipkech who alongside senior Kisumu county government officials led by director of Administration Mr Abala Wanga held a peace meeting with residents from Kericho and Kisumu County at Kabarus said stock theft incidents must not be allowed to escalate into tribal animosity. 
 ALSO READ:

Find out how 300 cattle got killed then end these conflicts

 “Criminals should not be allowed to hide behind tribal cloak. Though Kisumu residents are mourning the killing of two of their own- an old man and a 22 years-old man we have appealed to them to maintain calm and resist the urge to go on a revenge mission. The law must be allowed to take its due course,” said Wanga.
 Kipkech, said security patrols will be intensified along the volatile border of Ainamoi and Muhoroni constituencies.
