
 A man has been spending cold nights along the banks of River Nzoia after his friend drowned a week ago. 
 ALSO READ:

Top KCPE candidate defies stigma of albinism to emerge winner 

 According to Luhya traditions, Asman Ochieng must stay by the river until the body of his friend, Patrick Mchego, who drowned while both were crossing the flooded river, is found.
 The community believes if Mr Ochieng goes home before his friend's body is found, his family will die.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Ochieng is also not supposed to bathe or change clothes he was wearing when the incident occurred.
 He still recalls how his friend frowned.
 “There had been a heavy downpour and when we boarded a boat. In the middle of the river, our boat was hit by the strong waves and capsized,” he said.
 “As I tried to swim across the river to save my life, I heard my friend screaming for help and saw him being carried away by the water. That was the last time I saw him alive,” he said.
 Ochieng is determined to see the long wait through.
 “During the day my family members come here to keep me company and always ensure that I eat. At night I am left alone with my God,” he said. 
 ALSO READ:

Kakamega and Bungoma assemblies pass the People’s Assembly Motion

 However, Ramadhan Rajab, the owner of the boat that capsized said he has been using the vessel to help area residents cross the river for the last 40 years and that it has never caused an accident.
 Mr Rajab claimed that someone used witchcraft to make the vessel capsize.
 “If the body is found, the family members of the dead man and Ochieng will have to slaughter a cock and a male goat to appease the spirits before taking the body for burial in Uganda where he comes from. They will have to eat the meat from the exact place the boat capsized,” said Rajab.
 Rajab said the person who will spot the body and retrieve it must be given a bull by the family of the dead man.
 Area chief Stephen Erodo has banned people from crossing the flooded river using the boat that capsized.
