The Orange Democratic Movement candidate in the just-concluded Kitutu Chache South by-election claims his party abandoned him at the hour of need.
 Samuel Omwando, a former Kisii mayor, claimed he was fought on three fronts - by his own party, Jubilee Party and the Kisii County Government, making him finish third in the contest won by Richard Onyonka of Ford Kenya. 
 ALSO READ:

Chief Justice gives directions on presidential poll petitions

 He also demanded to know why ODM leader Raila Odinga abandoned him to support Mr Onyonka, who was vying on Moses Wetang’ula’s Ford Kenya party ticket.
 Onyonka, 55, and son of former Kanu regime Cabinet minister Zachary Onyonka, was re-elected to serve for a third term after garnering 10,122 votes.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Emerged second
 Jubilee’s Anthony Kibagendi emerged second after garnering 5,074 votes.
 Omwando came in third with 4,324 votes, while Kalonzo Musyoka-led Wiper Party candidate Andrew Maubi was fourth with 2,191 votes.
 Returning Officer Hioldah Imbo said out of the registered 59,017 voters, only 37.4 per cent turned up to vote, with 22,072 valid votes being cast and 168 votes being rejected in an exercise that was affected by heavy rains.
 On Wednesday, Mr Omwando conceded defeat but blamed his party’s leadership for his poor show.
  “I appreciate the support I got on Tuesday from the people of Kitutu Chache South, but I could not surmount the three powerful forces that were fighting me separately,” said Omwando. 
 ALSO READ:

Raila directs NASA MPs to attend county assembly debates on people’s assembly

 The ODM politician said he had decided to take a break from politics and concentrate on his businesses as he ponders on his political future.
 “For now, I am politically neutral since I was shocked to find out that my party leader was not supporting me,” said Omwando.
 Raised eyebrows
 ODM leader Raila Odinga raised eyebrows after he declared support for Onyonka, in what was seen as an effort to cement his relationship with other NASA principals.
 Only ODM deputy director of elections Bob Njagi accompanied Omwando during the last few days of his campaign after the party bigwigs in the county - Kisii Governor James Ongwae, Senator Prof Sam Ongeri and Woman Rep Janet Ongera kept off the campaigns.
 Kisii County ODM Chairman Kerosi Ondieki declined to comment on Omwando’s claims, saying he had been out of the county and would meet Omwando to establish what may have happened during the campaigns.
 But it was a big harvest for Wetang’ula, whose party now has two MPs in the Gusii region. 
 ALSO READ:

Onyonka retains Kitutu Chache South MP seat

 West Mugirango MP Vincent Kemosi was also elected on a Ford Kenya ticket in the August elections.
 Mr Kibagendi conceded defeat, saying he was happy with his performance.
 He said he would work closely with Onyonka.
 Seek refuge
 The youthful candidate took a swipe at the Kisii County Government for allegedly deploying its staff to campaign for one of his opponents.
 He termed ODM as the most undemocratic party since it denied him a ticket yet he won in the nomination.
 “I am happy that I defeated the ODM candidate in the main election, even the new MP was forced to seek refuge in Ford-Kenya when he sensed that he would be denied his democratic right,” said Kibagendi.
 He said he would prepare well for the 2022 race.
 But while celebrating his victory, Onyonka thanked NASA principals for backing him in his bid to retain his seat. 
 ALSO READ:

Raila: We want interim government for six months

 “I would also like to thank Governor Ongwae, Prof Ongeri and Mrs Ong’era for supporting my re-election, I promise to work with them closely to develop Kisii,” said Onyonka.
 The MP-elect promised to complete development projects he had initiated in his second term.
 enyarangi@standardmedia.co.ke
