Nairobi, Kenya: Plans are at an advanced stage for the swearing in of President-elect Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto this Tuesday at Kasarani Sports Complex.
 Unlike in the past, the organisers have desginated four entry points to the venue to various categories of attendees. These are:  VVIPs, VIPs,  members of the Committee on Assumption of office of the President and suppliers, Members of the public and 5,000 accredited party supporters. 
 ALSO READ:

Scramble for top state jobs begins

 “Anybody using the VIP entrance will have to have both the card and accreditation (being done from KICC)  big shots from the Judiciary, Executive and Legislature will follow under VIP,” said a senior government official who sought anonymity.
 He went on, “the middle tier will be occupied by 5,000 accredited party supporters. Confirmed to attend are also 30 high profile businessmen from United Arabs Emirates (UAE).”




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Members of the public will be allowed to drive to the venue but only access the complex through gate 11 and 12 while VVIPs will be driven to the venue. Judges, magistrates, CSs and MPs will use buses.
 Kenyans are anxious as the day approaches with the Committee on Assumption of office of the President working round the clock to ensure it succeeds as planned.
 Being the second swearing in under the new constitution and the candidate being the incumbent president, there will be no much activity, which would have been the case had there been the transfer of instruments of power.
 In the Assumption of Office of President Act, the swearing in must be conducted at a public place in Nairobi between 10 am and 2pm and the day is reserved as a public holiday.
 This came immediately after the defunct Eectoral Commission of Kenya declared former President Mwai Kibaki the winner at recorded televised announcement on December 30th at 6pm triggering the post-election violence that left over 1300 dead.
 Under the Act, an ad hoc committee chaired by Secretary to the Cabinet is supposed to prepare a programme for the ceremony immediately after the polls. 
 ALSO READ:

Disqualify Uhuru from race, lawyer asks Chebukati

 In the current case, the preparations were put on hold after two petitioners challenged Uhuru’s victory in the October 26th polls. They resumed after the Supreme Court  declared the President validly elected.
 The law was enacted after the chaotic transfer of power from former President Daniel Moi to Mwai Kibaki in 2002.
 During the Moi era, swearing in was done at Statehouse where the head of the Civil Service and Secretary to the Cabinet was in charge.
 Joseph Letting and Phares Kuindwa and Sally Kosgei played this role.
 The official explained that this swearing in will be a total departure from 2013 because there will be no handing over of the instruments of power like was the case with Kibaki and Uhuru.
 “The fundamental aspect will be the inspection of the guard of honour. There will be no president elect to hand over to. It’s the same office,” he said.
 In 2013, both Uhuru and Ruto  knelt down for prayers alongside their wives after being sworn-in. 
 ALSO READ:

NASA supporters protest in Kisii against Matiang'i as Ruto campaigns for Jubilee

 Already, the Bibilia Broadcasting Network through its director Christopher Arap Mutahi has donated two Bibles to Chief Justice David Maraga for the swearing in of the duo and onward delivery of the same.
 It is not clear if the President and DP will opt to use their own bibles.
 The inauguration has been planned by a 22-member committee, bringing on board security chiefs, Attorney General, principals secretaries, one Cabinet Secretary and three persons nominated by the President elect in line with the Act.
 Last Monday, committee chaired by Chief of Staff Joseph Kinyua resumed its work and by Friday it had assured the public that everything was on course in times of security.
 In 2013, eleven Heads of States and Government were in attendance together with diplomats and foreign dignitaries. This time round, things might be different since no list is forthcoming two days to the D-day.
 “We expect many leaders from the region and across the globe to be in attendance. We call on all Kenyans to turn up in large numbers too. This is their day,” said Kinyua, decline to name the over 20 heads of state and government expected in Nairobi, citing security concerns.
 Uhuru is also expected to face a hostile opposition despite extending an invite.
 The budget set aside in 2013 was Sh1.2billion but the National treasury slashed the figure to Sh374milion, with Sh64million provided to judiciary.
 
 ALSO READ:

Respect Raila, leaders tell DP Ruto

