Deplorable roads in Kahawa Wendani on the outskirts of the city have left residents disgruntled.
 The already dilapidated roads get worse during the rainy season as potholes collect water, leaving small vehicles and boda boda riders to contend with nearly impassable roads. 
 ALSO READ:

Nakumatt faces landlords’ wrath over unpaid rent

 The only well done section is a half kilometre that stretches from the Thika Super Highway to the Kahawa Wendani Nakumatt supermarket.
 This part of the road is well-paved and even lined with security lights.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 A boda boda rider identified as Caleb Muiru said the poor state of roads had brought both bad and good fortunes to their business. “When it rains, it gets very muddy and the rainwater does not flow. Most residents would rather take a motorbike to drop them at their doorstep,” he said. “However, riding through the dirty water, which covers both rider and passenger, is discouraging.”
 A trader who gave his name as Karanja raised the question of the quality of work and the materials used when the roads were last repaired.
 Carried away
 “The contractor that prepared these sections used soil that was gradually carried away by rainwater. These roads need the right amount of murram to be poured before it is well compacted to prevent erosion,” he said.
 Karanja added that whenever it rained, the residents had to be extra keen while walking along the pools of stagnant water as they navigated their way home.
 Emmy, a resident, is not amused by the state of affairs and hopes leaders will swing into action and provide a lasting solution to the problem. 
 ALSO READ:

Squabbles leave roads in bad shape

 “The leader should think of doing better in terms of assigning the road works to competent local contractors. We are tired of the shoddy work that is done on these roads, which barely last months before potholes appear again,” she said.
 The dry season is equally inconvenient, more so to roadside traders who have to endure heavy clouds of dust settling on their wares. Some sections of the roads have deep potholes that leave drivers crawling lest they end up damaging their cars.
 Short journey
 The short journey from the main highway to residents’ homes is made longer as they navigate rough sections of the roads and deep pools of water. Keeping their cars clean is an uphill task.
 The residents are calling on Member of the County Assembly Cyrus Omondi to push for immediate repair of the roads.
 metropolitan@standardmedia.co.ke
 
 ALSO READ:

Carrefour opens TRM outlet

