A court in Kitale has sentenced a man to 10 years in prison after finding him guilty of defiling his two daughters aged 13 and 14.
 The man is said to have committed the offence on diverse dates between January 1, 2013 and October 4, 2015. 
 ALSO READ:

I hadn’t had sex for 8 years, suspect tells court

 "It is shameful for a father to subject his daughters to beastly acts. I’m satisfied with the evidence and I sentence you 10 years imprisonment for the offence of incest,” said Senior Resident Magistrate Vincent Adet.
 The girls told the court that their father had defiled them in turns on several occasions.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 The two girls and their brother were left in his custody when their mother left for the Middle East in 2013 to seek employment.
 The victims told the court that they lived in a single room that was partitioned with a curtain.
  “One night when we were asleep, our father came and ordered me to remove my clothes. He also removed his and then defiled me," the eldest girl told the court.
 Younger sister
 The girl also told the court that on a different day, her father ordered her younger sister to remove her clothes and defiled her as well.
 “This became the culture. On some occasions when we rebelled, he threatened us with a panga," the girls told the court. 
 ALSO READ:

26-year old businesswoman jailed for defiling Form 3 boy

 Angry with their father’s actions, they made a decision to resist his advances on October 20, 2015, after which he denied them basic needs.
  "When we refused to allow him continue with his devilish acts he threatened not to pay our school fees and also went ahead to deny us food," they told the court.
 The girls shared their ordeal with two women who were neighbours. The women reported the matter at the Kitale Police Station and the suspect was arrested, according to evidence given in court.
 In his judgement Mr Adet said evidence provided by the prosecution had proved beyond doubt that the accused committed the offence.
 The man had denied the charge and asked to give an unsworn statement. He has 14 days to appeal.
