Freds Academy in Meru emerged the best school nationally in this year’s KCPE with a mean score of 419 marks.
 All the 55 candidates who sat for this year’s KCPE scored over 400 marks, with the top candidate, Isaac Gitonga Mutuma, bagging 433 marks. 
 ALSO READ:

Students who missed KCPE to sit supplementary exams, Uhuru orders

 The county was also on the top chart as Kathigiri Boarding Primary School produced the second best candidate nationally, Sharon Nkatha, who scored 447 marks.
 Tea plantations




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 She was joined in the list by Mwangi Eugene Mburu of Efforts Junior Academy in Kirinyaga with 446, Kellen Njambi Ndung’u of little-known Hillside Endarasha Academy in Nyeri, who had 443 marks. Njiru Nixon Njeru of Virdu Ramji Primary in Murang’a managed 442 marks.
 Among the top candidates was Valerie Moraa, who scored 445 marks to put Laikipia Air Base Primary School on the map.
 In Kiambu, James Mburu Wainaina of Pleasant View Academy scored 441 marks to emerge among the top candidates in the country. 
 Njogune Boarding Primary School in South Imenti, a public school, performed better than last year. The school’s best candidate was Lyn Nyawira with 434 marks. Her parents, who labour in local tea plantations, were overcome with emotions as they narrated their appreciation.
 Initial results at Chogoria Girls Boarding Primary School in Maara sub-county showed that Millicent Wamuru was the top student with 439 marks, beating her former classmate Angel Muthoni with two marks.
 Elsewhere at Kathituni Boys Primary, in the same sub-county, Mark Munene managed 439 Marks. 
 ALSO READ:

Goldalyn Kadiya, 2017's top candidate

 County director of education Ann Kiilu told The Standard that although they had not received the full results, they were happy with the provisional results that had been received so far. 
 In Embu, initial results showed Tenri Primary School produced the best pupil in the county.
 Nephy Ndwiga Edge was leading with 440 marks and was closely followed by Ivy Nyawira Wanjiku from Bonanza School with 439.
 From Lions School, Sandra Gatuiri Kirimi posted 438 marks and was followed by Catherine Njoki Kamau with 437 and Denzel Roman with 433.
 At Bonanza School, the principal Francis Mbuthia revealed 15 students scored 400 marks and above, which was an improvement from last year.
 Overall, 40 pupils out of the 70 candidates scored 350 marks and above while only one did not attain the pass score of 250 marks.
 In Nyeri, leading the high scorers was Kellen Njambi Ndung’u of Hillside Endarasha Academy, with 443 marks. 
 ALSO READ:

Girls dominate Nakuru County KCPE ranking.

 The school in Kabati village, Kieni Constituency, produced nine students with more than 400 marks. Mt Camel Othaya had a reason to celebrate after their top candidate Victor Ngacha Waruiru scored 436 marks.
 In Mt Kenya Academy, Barchok Jamie Chepkoech scored 435 marks alongside Lasoi Beverly Chemutai, who attained 434 marks.
 At St Teresa Girls, Valencia Mumbi Wachira led the pack with 435 marks.
 In Kiambu, James Mburu Wainaina of Pleasant View Academy scored 441 marks to emerge among the top candidates in the country.
