  The Cereal Growers Association has warned of a possible serious maize shortage in the coming months due to the army worm invasion.
 The association has noted the pest is a major threat to maize production, terming it “worse than the Maize Lethal Necrosis Disease”.
 This came as details emerged that no solution had been found to address the migratory pest that was first reported early in the year.
 Already, the country is facing a deficit of 8 million bags of maize, with the Government announcing a raft of measures to increase its production.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 This emerged at the end of a three-day forum at the weekend between the State and various players in the cereal sector in Naivasha over plans to increase maize production.
 Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Willy Bett, who was present, admitted that the pest posed a major threat as it continued to spread from one county to another.
 Mr Bett was, however, optimistic this would be contained, adding that research centres had been funded and given the mandate to seek solutions.
 “The Government is aware of the threat posed by the worm and we are working with the State and private researchers so that we can get lasting solution,” he said.
 Bett said he was confident that the country would in the coming years meet the annual deficit and stop more maize importation.
 But the chairman of the Cereal Growers Association Farnie Kruger termed the army worm as one of the greatest challenges the sector was facing.
 He noted the issue had been downplayed for long, with the pest affecting hundreds of farmers across the country and wiping out tens of acres under maize production.
 “This new pest has wreaked havoc in the country and there are fears we could be facing maize shortage if no solution is found,” he said.
 Mr Kruger, who has vast farms in Murang’a and Nanyuki, said that it was impossible to conduct air-spray in the former, making it even harder to contain the pest from spreading further.
 Trans Nzoia Agriculture Executive Mary Nzomo noted it was hard for one county to deal with the migratory pest.
 “The only way we can deal with the pest is by counties working together with the national government as the losses are monumental,” said Mrs Nzomo.
 newsdesk@standardmedia.co.ke
