Political analyst Mutahi Ngunyi has taken a dig at Opposition leader Raila Odinga dismissing his National Resistance Movement.
 In a Twitter post on Tuesday, Mr Ngunyi said that Raila’s NRM was a failed plan and is just a guerilla movement. 
 ALSO READ:

Raila's elaborate, nation-wide plan force a new election

 The controversial analyst likened NRM to the famous Uganda’s Lord's Resistance Army, a guerrilla group that formerly operated in Uganda under the leadership of Joseph Kony.
 He also pointed out that the movement has similarities with Sierra Leone’s rebel group, Revolutionary United Front that was led by Foday Sankoh.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Ngunyi added that telecoms operator Safaricom should freeze the former Prime Minister's number.
 “RAILA Resistance Movement is Dead on ARRIVAL. Safaricom SHOULD begin by freezing Raila Number,” read his post.
 RAILA Resistance Movement is Dead on ARRIVAL. Safaricom SHOULD begin by freezing Raila Number. My Column this week. https://t.co/erOhXw9drU
— Mutahi Ngunyi (@MutahiNgunyi) October 31, 2017 Raila on Tuesday announced the establishment of peoples’ assembly, a broad based forum to discuss issues affecting Kenyans.
 The people’s assembly will be a forum of elected leaders, members of the civil society and religious leaders who will be discussing issues affecting Kenyans and pass resolutions that can be debated in county assemblies.
 He said it was time for his movement to begin the essential task of making elections count and democracy work in Kenya. 
 ALSO READ:

Reactions after Raila speaks on Uhuru’s re-election

 “We will be the people who will end electoral fraud not only in Kenya but in all of Africa and be the team that will uproot the evil culture of sham elections with pre-determined outcomes,” declared Raila.
 The Opposition chief lauded his staunch supporters for boycotting the repeat poll indicating that President-elect Uhuru is a product of fraud and there is nothing like tyranny of numbers in Jubilee.
 “We exposed the so-called tyranny of numbers in jubilee to be a fraud, the 8-million plus votes Uhuru claimed to have secured in August to be fiction and vote-fixing and manipulation of figures by the IEBC to be real,” said Raila.
 The former Prime Minister also pointed out that since the Supreme Court annulled the August 8 presidential election, the country became deeply divided on the question of holding free, fair and credible elections.
 “No society that calls itself a democracy should be divided on the need for free, fair and credible elections,” stressed Raila.
 In his acceptance speech, President-elect Uhuru celebrated the resilience of Kenyans, democracy, and institutions.
 He said the Supreme Court of Kenya did not question the numbers he garnered in the August 8 Election but the process of declaring them, adding that by getting 7.5 million votes, his supporters had re-validated his mandate. 
 ALSO READ:

Raila: Uhuru Kenyatta is product of fraud

 On the controversial electoral laws, Uhuru said he did not sign the Bill because he was advised it would be unfair to change the rules in the middle of the game. 
 "The road to October 26 was not easy. Parliament took the legislative critic by the Supreme Court very seriously,” he said.
 He said Raila went to court and was granted his wish, but he chose to ignore the rest of the ruling.
 "You cannot choose your opportunity to exercise a right and then abscond from the responsibilities of your choice," Uhuru noted. 
 Thirdway Alliance leader Ekuru Aukot said Kenya needs urgent healing beyond the 2017 election.
 "We have been consistent in our quest for justice and rule of law. We believe that we have been able to shape how politics is done in Kenya, albeit in our own small way," he said in a statement to newsrooms.
 On the just concluded repeat presidential poll, Aukot said; "we fought to be included in this repeat election. I want to thank NASA for supporting us. Our decision to participate was based on the fact that the Thirdway Alliance has always advocated that the Constitution of Kenya must be safeguarded and followed at all times." 
 He said they had misgivings on IEBC's preparedness but they decided to participate in the fresh elections as it was the only way to avoid anarchy in the country. "We disagree with any proposals that the elections were to be boycotted. To abandon the repeat election would have caused a constitutional crisis... We strongly believe that the supreme law of the land, and not the wishes of a tiny minority, must guide our elections now and in future." 
 In the repeat election, 25 constituencies in Nyanza did not participate in the poll. On Monday, IEBC vice chairperson Consolata Nkatha said areas that did not participate in the election would not affect the final result.  
 ALSO READ:

Businessmen, professionals hail Uhuru’s re-election

 Out of 266 constituencies that submitted results, Uhuru got 7,483,895 votes. This was only 719,395 votes less of the 8,203,290 votes he got on August 8.
