A seven-year-old boy was shot dead Tuesday afternoon at Pipeline estate in Nairobi’s Eastlands as police engaged NASA supporters in running battles.
 An eyewitness claimed the boy was hit by a stray bullet as he was playing with other children on the balcony of a rental apartment. 
 ALSO READ:

Raila announces swearing-in date

 The death happened as police were stopping NASA leaders and supporters from attending a memorial service, for the people NASA says have been killed by the police.
 The anti-riot squad was chasing NASA supporters, lobbing teargas canisters and shooting in the air to disperse any group of people in the estates near Jacaranda grounds.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 NASA leaders had planned to have a memorial service at the Jacaranda grounds as the swearing in ceremony for President Uhuru Kenyatta was ongoing at the Kasarani stadium.
 Police dispersed NASA leaders and their supporters who were on their way to the venue for the planned memorial service for 27 supporters killed during election protests. They were led by NASA principals, Raila Odinga, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula.
 Raila addressed the supporters along Manyanja Road, Eastlands, where he announced that he would be ‘sworn in’ as President on Jamhuri Day.
 "I am not a coward, I will be sworn as president on Jamhuri Day, I am the legitimate president," said Raila.
 Former Nairobi Senatorial candidate Edwin Sifuna had asked NASA followers to carry their holy books to the venue.
 Sifuna had said that NASA had notified Nairobi Police Commander Japheth Koome of its plan. 
 ALSO READ:

President Uhuru Kenyatta takes oath of office

  “We have on behalf of NASA notified Soweto and Embakasi Police Stations with a copy to Mr Koome of the memorial on Tuesday. Attendees are encouraged to bring their Bibles,” said Sifuna.
 The NASA rally was held shortly after President Uhuru Kenyatta was sworn in at the Moi International Sports Complex Kasarani in Nairobi on Tuesday, November 28. Various heads of state and leaders of various delegations attended.
