Seven people admitted in hospital are under a serious condition after eating a cow’s carcass that was infected with anthrax.
 More than 100 others have been treated and discharged after the feast at Chemagel village in Chepalungu. 
 ALSO READ:

Isaac Ruto: I have not defected to Jubilee Party

 County Medical Services Officer Bernard Sowek, however, said the seven who are still in hospital were out of danger.
 Mr Sowek said the victims were rushed to Chebunyo dispensary in Chepalungu early on Wednesday. They were diagnosed and referred to Longisa Hospital for specialised treatment.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “The patients are in a stable condition and they are currently out of danger because of the urgent intervention when they started feeling sick,” added Sowek.
 Sources said a neighbour reported that his cow had died suddenly and called for a feast.
 “The report that we have is that a neighbour called for a feast after their cow died without displaying any symptoms of illness on Tuesday evening and at 9pm, some of those who had eaten the meat started having abdominal pains,” said Sowek.
 Health staff have pitched tent at the village to sensitise locals on the need to keep off suspect meat.
 The county executive in charge of health, Joseph Sitonik, said the site where the carcass was slaughtered had also been disinfected and cordoned off.
 Sitonik expressed concern that the skin of the animal had not been found because it  had been sold to traders at Chebunyo trading centre. 
 ALSO READ:

Tea farmers’ payment bonus fails to impress

 “We are trying to trace the skin of the cow. It should be destroyed since it can be lethal,” he said.
 He has also asked any person who may have eaten the carcass and had not shown any signs of illness to come forward.
 “Anybody who ate the mean should be treated to prevent any further reaction,” said Sitonik.
 Business at the village near the Trans Mara border came to a standstill, with locals holed up in their houses.
 “It started as a feast but when people started falling ill, we had to go out and mobilise those who ate the meat to come out and get medication,” said Reuben Rotich, one of the elders at the village.
 Kronoh@standardmedia.co.ke
