Hundreds of Jubilee supporters from the North Rift region will troop to Kasarani Sports Complex in Nairobi for the swearing-in ceremony of President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto tomorrow.
 Local leaders have organised travel plans, while the majority of individual supporters have made private arrangements to attend the big event. The Government has declared Tuesday a public holiday. 
 ALSO READ:

Five roads in Nairobi to be closed today

 The region voted overwhelmingly for Jubilee both in the August 8 General Election and also in the October 26 repeat presidential election. Leaders who spoke to The Standard hinted that supporters would start travelling to Nairobi from today (Monday) to mark the occasion.
 Nandi and Uasin Gishu Members of Parliament (MPs) Cornelly Serem (Aldai), Caleb Kositany (Soy), Vincent Tuwei (Mosop) and Julius Melly (Tinderet) separately said yesterday that several buses, matatus and private vehicles would ferry supporters to the event.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “More than 50 buses and matatus will ferry supporters from Nandi. People made the decision to travel from ward level and some are willing to meet their cost,” said Serem.
 “Residents will be joining other Kenyans in celebrating the event. The swearing-in ceremony was long overdue,” reckoned Serem. The legislator stated elections do come and go after every five years and that NASA leaders led by Raila Odinga should have accepted the election outcome to avoid putting the country on prolonged election mood.
 “He (Raila) went to court that also ruled in his favour but later boycotted the repeat election,” pointed out Serem.
 Kositany said: “After the swearing-in ceremony, we will be done with politicking and embark on economic activities to empower our citizens." Tuwei said after the ceremony, the new administration would focus on development programmes.
 Tuwei said the new administration would support all citizens towards economic prosperity now that political debates that characterised the last few months had ended.
 “They will ensure funds trickle down to the grassroots to enhance service delivery.” 
 ALSO READ:

Why Uhuru now wants dialogue with Raila

 Sirisia MP John Waluke also stated 15 buses in his constituency had been hired to ferry supporters to the event.
 “We want to make sure Uhuru’s swearing-in gets record attendance,” said Waluke.
