Leaders from the South Rift region who lost their political seats in the Jubilee nominations and subsequently in the August 8 elections, teamed up to marshal support for President Uhuru Kenyatta in the October 26 repeat presidential poll.
 The leaders, mainly from Bomet and Kericho counties in which the President garnered more votes in the repeat elections, capitalised on their opponents’ absence and executed a vigorous campaign in favour of the President. 
 ALSO READ:

Judgement does not confer legitimacy to Uhuru poll win

 The leaders include former Konoin MP Julius Kones (pictured), who vied for Bomet gubernatorial seat but lost to Governor Joyce Laboso, former Bomet East legislator Benard Bett, who was floored by Beatrice Kones, former Bureti lawmaker Leonard Sang who was unable to beat Japhet Kiptergech Mutai.
 Others are former Sigowet/Soin leader Justice Kemei, who lost to Benard Koros in the Jubilee primaries and new entrant Richard Kilel, who lost to incumbent Bomet Central Ronald Tonui after a spirited campaign.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Manifestos
 Dr Kones said he decided to launch door-to-door campaign because he wanted the continuity of Jubilee manifestoes.
 “Even after the defeat, I decided to back the winner for the sake of unity in the region and vowed to campaign for Jubilee agenda which has helped reform the country in the past five years,” said Kones.
 He felt the Kipsigis community needed more development rendered by the Jubilee administration and saw the need to support the President.
 “All Jubilee aspirants had agreed to support the winners and Jubilee government after the nominations and I had to stick to that because as a leader it is good to sacrifice some ambitions so that the people can benefit,” he said.
 On his part, Kilel said the repeat presidential election was key to all Kenyans and that made him campaign tirelessly for Uhuru’s re-election. “Even if Rift-Valley was considered a Jubilee zone, I had to make sure that I campaign for the President so as to get more votes as compared to what we got in the August polls because we did not want to take chances,” said Kilel. 
 ALSO READ:

Uhuru is at crossroads, he should personally reach out to Raila now

 He said they used their own resources for campaigns and sacrificed their time because it was about changing lives of millions of Kenyans.
 Bett said that he wanted Kenyans to get the right leadership after the oppositions shown that they cannot be trusted with country’ leadership.
 “I did not manage to defend my seat but that did not stop me from campaigning for Uhuru. Kenyans need good leadership and it is only Jubilee who can offer that,” he said.
 Sang said Jubilee has brought development to Kenyans and challenges facing the Kipsigis community will be addressed when they are in government.
 Kemei, who has campaigned for President Uhuru since 2002, said Jubilee agenda was transformative and Kenyans had more confidence in Uhuru and his deputy Ruto.
 “The current leadership led by the President and his DP William Ruto is the best for this country and we cannot gamble with Kenyans lives by taking them to the Opposition,” he said.
 
 ALSO READ:

President and NASA leader should now unite Kenyans

