Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o and his Nandi counterpart Stephen Sang yesterday led other leaders from the two counties in calling for peaceful coexistence at the volatile border.
 The governors said the violence witnessed at the border were not ethnically instigated but the work of criminals “hiding behind cattle rustling and land disputes to upset peace”. 
 ALSO READ:

Shooting, tear gas, bonfires mar repeat polls in NASA zones

 Cattle rustling
 “When someone stones some vehicles and leaves others, it is simply an act of criminality which must be dealt with accordingly,” said Governor Sang.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Cattle rustling, land wrangles and politically motivated conflicts are the main causes of disputes at the border.
 The two leaders agreed to initiate projects along the troubled border as a way of finding permanent solutions to constant feuds.
 “We have agreed to jointly put up a number of amenities to benefit communities living along this border,” said Prof Nyong’o.
 Mr Sang said it is unfortunate that political differences were being turned into a source of conflict at the border. He said the prevailing political standoff should not be allowed to destroy peaceful co-existence along the borders of Kisumu, Kericho and Nandi counties.
 “This political standoff is a passing cloud. Let us protect our brotherhood and neighbourliness against any political eventualities because we will remain as brothers with common interests beyond current politics,” he said.
 The governors were speaking yesterday at Chemelil Sugar Company where Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries Cabinet Secretary Willy Bett issued a Sh300 million bailout cheque to help the miller clear farmers’ arrears dating back to 2014. 
 ALSO READ:

First Lady Margaret Kenyatta vouches for President Uhuru

 Mosop MP Vincent Tuwei said the governors of Kisumu, Kericho and Nandi must rise above political inclinations to bring the animosity at the border to an end.
 Peace drive
 Last week, the two governors were joined by Kericho’s Paul Chepkwony in a peace drive at the border of the three counties.
 They asked residents of Awasi, Kipsitet, Muhoroni and Munara not to allow politics to create animosity with their neighbours.
 Following the October 26 repeat presidential poll, demonstrators blocked access to Awasi town, the trading centre at the junction of roads that lead to Kericho, Kisumu, Kisii and Nandi counties.
 “We have put our political differences aside to bring a message of peace and tolerance to the people of Nandi, Kericho and Kisumu counties a,” Governor Nyong’o said in Awasi then.
 But in Koguta, Muhoroni, a peace meeting convened by Kisumu County Commissioner Pauline Dola almost aborted after residents walked out protesting the absence of their neighbours from Kericho. 
 ALSO READ:

There will be no ‘nusu-mkate’ government, governors tell Raila

