A student sitting his Form Four national examination was stabbed to death at Chandera village in Molo.
 Isaac Kariuki, 17, a candidate at Chandera Secondary School, was among 11 youths who had attended a circumcision ceremony that turned tragic. 
 ALSO READ:

KCSE exam delayed in Mwingi central over heavy rainfall

 According to the deceased’s cousin Kevin Kimani, some youths attempted to force initiates to smoke bhang, which the victim and others opposed.
 “We had just finished eating at the initiation ceremony of two of our friends. Several youths who were under the influence of drugs asked for more food but there was none. They tried to force the initiates to smoke bhang which we resisted,” said Kimani.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 The commotion
 It was during the commotion that the father of the initiates dashed out of his house and flushed all the youths out of the compound.
 One of the youths taking care of the initiates stabbed the deceased during the commotion.
 The student was pronounced dead on arrival at the Molo Level Four Hospital from excessive bleeding.
 Kariuki’s mother, Susan Mukami, described the death of her son as unfortunate, noting that he was a well behaved boy.
 “It’s a big loss to our family. My son was very disciplined and never used drugs. He was caught in the wrong place with the wrong people,” said Ms Mukami. 
 ALSO READ:

Ministry of Education deregisters private school in Gilgil for exam malpractice

 Molo Deputy County Commissioner David Wanyonyi said the suspect had already been arrested.
 While condemning the act, Wanyonyi  notedt there has been increased cases of drug abuse in the area.
 Drug abuse
 “The suspect will be arraigned in court after investigations. We shall step up the fight against drug abuse in the area which has led to moral decay among our youths,” said Wanyonyi.
 Nakuru County Woman Rep Liza Chelule called on parents to ensure that their children, who are undergoing circumcision during this season, are in the hands of trustworthy people.
 “This is a vice that has taken root in the society over the years. We have in the past seen similar incidents and parents need to be extra careful in selecting those attending to their circumcised children,” said Ms Chelule.
 At Chandera Secondary School, the deceased’s desk remained vacant as the rest of the candidates went on with the exams . 
 ALSO READ:

TSC boss Nancy Macharia shocked as principal turns up to pick exam papers drunk 

 The Body of the deceased was taken to Molo Sub-county mortuary.
