On Tuesday, President Uhuru Kenyatta will be sworn-in for his second and final term. And thousands of Kenyans will throng Moi International Stadium, Kasarani, to witness the historic occasion. Millions others will follow proceedings through various media platforms. This will no doubt be an ecstatic moment for supporters of Jubilee Party.
 Conversely, on the same day, there will be almost an equivalent number of Kenyans who will feel scorned because they believe National Super Alliance (NASA) leader Raila Odinga was robbed of victory. 
 ALSO READ:

How Kibaki handed power to Uhuru in 2013 (Photos)

 That is where this year’s presidential contest has left Kenyans after the Supreme Court decision upholding President Kenyatta’s October 26 re-election.
 Kenyatta will be taking the oath of office in an elaborate event witnessed by a number of regional and international dignitaries. Soon after, he will have a retrospection on the circumstances and events that preceded his re-election.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 The country is divided following the divisive presidential campaigns, whose outcome had to be contested at the Supreme Court twice. A declaration by Raila’s supporters, including dozens of elected leaders, that they do not recognise Kenyatta’s victory should give the President every reason to worry.
 President Kenyatta’s task is therefore cut out for him. His first priority should be to bring the country together. The President needs wisdom to navigate a potentially treacherous road. In his Tuesday speech, the President should assure all Kenyans that his leadership will deliberately bring Kenyans from all regions into the hard work of nation building. All Kenyans need to feel part and parcel of his presidency.
 By so doing, he will set the right tone. And it should not be through mere words, they should be followed with action. A good starting point is to reach out to NASA leader Raila Odinga and convince him of the need to move the nation forward.
 Kenyans should see themselves as brothers and sisters and the President should always be the symbol of unity.
