Opposition leader Raila Odinga has taken a swipe at President-elect Uhuru Kenyatta following the alleged shooting of his supporters last week.
 Speaking at Laico Regency Hotel on Friday, Raila asked President-elect Uhuru and the Jubilee Government to arrest, detain or prosecute him if the regime thinks he is the problem. 
 ALSO READ:

How NASA plans to honour fallen supporters

 "If Raila Odinga is the problem, arrest Raila. If Raila Odinga is the problem, detain Raila. If Raila Odinga is the problem, prosecute Raila. If Raila Odinga is the problem, imprison Raila. And ultimately if Raila Odinga is the problem, shoot Raila to death then,” said the Former Prime Minister.
 The National Super Alliance (NASA) leader accused the police of using excessive force killing innocent Kenyans.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 You don't go shooting innocent people who only came to receive Raila Odinga. What have these young kids done to you? Mr Kenyatta, he who lives by the bullet dies by the bullet.
 NASA held a fundraiser on Friday evening at the Laico Regency, Nairobi.
 According to the coalition, the funds would be directed towards funeral expenses of supporters who died during Raila’s return.
 NASA leader Raila Odinga on Saturday (November 18) accused police of killing 15 NASA supporters during his return from the US.
 Raila condemned the officers saying the brutality meted on his supporters was unnecessary since it was a peaceful procession aimed at welcoming him from the trip.
 “Not a single one of you will be forgotten. You did not die in vain. You sacrificed your lives for the cause of democracy as it gave you the freedom to choose your leaders and determine the direction of your country,” the NASA leader said at Okoa Kenya offices in Nairobi. 
 ALSO READ:

Top ministers to be dumped

 Five people lost their lives and several others were injured including Kathiani Member of Parliament Robert Mbui when police clashed with the NASA supporters.
 According to police spokesman George Kinoti, the dead were stoned to death by angry mobs in different incidences after they were allegedly caught stealing.
 
