A minor is fighting for his life at a Nairobi hospital after his uncle chopped off his&nbsp;genitals&nbsp;in Taita Taveta County. The Tuesday incident in Matasenyi village of Wumingu location has sparked public outrage. Accounts from the police and victim&rsquo;s relatives say the five-year-old boy was playing with other children outside his grandparent&rsquo;s home when his 27-year-old uncle picked a knife and chopped off his&nbsp;genitals. The victim&rsquo;s distress call attracted a mob that attempted to lynch the suspect. Taita OCPD Benjamin Muhia confirmed the incident and said the suspect had been arrested. Muhia said the suspect, who was seriously injured, is also undergoing treatment at the Wesu Sub-County Hospital under police guard. ALSO READ: 14 year old girl gives birth after being defiled by her father &ldquo;The victim was playing with other children when the the uncle cut off his penis and threw it away,&rdquo; said the OCPD. Muhia said the boy was first taken to Wesu Sub-County Hospital for treatment before being transferred to St Joseph&rsquo;s Shelter of Hope where his condition worsened. He said the minor was later transferred to a hospital in Nairobi for specialised treatment. The police officer said they are yet to establish what triggered the attack. Interior Ministry and Coordination officials in the area said the suspect had been mentally disturbed for quite some time. Area Children&rsquo;s Officer John Menja termed the incident as barbaric. Menja said the suspect was arrested at Werugha trading centre as he tried to escape. ALSO READ: Cases of men raped by women alarm doctors In a recent interview, County Children&rsquo;s Officer Juma boga said about 75 per cent of convicts in the area were linked to child abuse cases, which has been on the increase in the region. Some of the&nbsp;rampant cases in the region include early marriages and pregnancies, rape, defilement, sodomy, incest, domestic violence, child labour, prostitution, sex tourism and human trafficking. [email&#160;protected]