Outgoing EALA MP Peter Mathuki (left) with Matungulu legislator Stephen Mule address the press in Nguluni, Matungulu Constituency. (Photo: Erastus Mulwa, Standard) Two MPs allied to the National Super Alliance (NASA) have blamed the delay in the take-off of the East African Legislative Assembly (EALA) on the Jubilee administration. Outgoing EALA MP Peter Mathuki and Matungulu legislator Stephen Mule have said the regional assembly based in Arusha, Tanzania has been rendered dysfunctional by Kenyan Government&rsquo;s failure to submit names of nominees to the assembly. The assembly, which brings together Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda, Burundi and South Sudan, is the legislative arm of the East African Community. Kenya is the only country in the bloc that has not sent representatives after Parliament and Jubilee Party questioned some nominees whose names were forwarded by the opposition for approval. The two legislators said it was a big shame for Kenya, being the economic giant in the bloc, to hold her partners in ransom for failing to execute her mandate to send representatives to the regional assembly. ALSO READ: Wiper summons two parliamentary aspirants over Matungulu nomination row &nbsp;&ldquo;As we speak now, the Parliament of East Africa cannot proceed because Kenya has not given names of her representatives to the assembly and that tells you that the country is obviously not holding together and those are bad signs,&rdquo; said Mathuki who is also the running mate of Machakos governor candidate Wavinya Ndeti (Wiper). Mathuki said it was the responsibility of the government to send representatives but blamed some factions within Jubilee administration for scuttling the process. &ldquo;Kenya is supposed to be offering leadership in the region but it has been defeated by some countries like South Sudan which is the latest entrant into the bloc and has already sent representatives,&rdquo; he said. He said Kenya risked losing out in a big way because her strategic interests cannot be taken into account. Mule specifically singled out the Majority Leader in the National Assembly, Aden Duale, accusing him of allegedly playing power games with the issue. &ldquo;Honorable Duale has been the stumbling block in this whole matter because he has vested political interest in who gets nominated to the regional assembly,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: Fresh dispute over EALA nominees