The Nairobi International Finance Centre (NIFC) continues to move towards reality, off the pages of policy papers and legislative bills. As it grinds its way through the parliamentary process, and with an election looming, there is likely to be rapid debate and possible presidential assent soon. So what happens the morning after? Being a matter of debate restricted to a few specialists, lobbyists and activists, the NIFC remains a mystery to majority of Kenyans. What is it, what is it meant to achieve and who will benefit? The first is somewhat difficult to answer, but once we do, the rest become easier to address. At core, the bill for the NIFC creates a framework for the Government to pass legislation that will grant particular firms, within a particular segment of the economy, privileges that govern their operations and ownership. In return, the firms will be expected to create a net benefit within a set time frame for the broader economy. ALSO READ: Health fears as sewage floods Pipeline area in Nairobi More simply, the Government is creating a Special Economic Zone for financial firms. I have been involved with multiple such cities and broadly they fall into three types, which I describe below in generalised terms. First, there are countries such as Switzerland, Luxembourg and Mauritius that foster a financial centre to service the needs of a larger economic entity nearby, or at least more complicated. Everything from setting up a business to hiring staff, tax and regulations are simplified so as to allow the FC to become a hub for operations targeting another, larger economy. The sector is highly restricted from flowing either products or funds back into the local market, which is effectively ring-fenced from the FC. Other countries such as a number of Caribbean islands and smaller European nations have simpler operations hubs, but offer huge benefits deriving from corporate anonymity and tax relief that makes it highly lucrative to base operations there. Broader issues ALSO READ: IEBC staff robbed at election centre in Kariobangi These are less financial centres and more corporate registries and are frequently &ndash; unfairly in my opinion &ndash; cited as tax havens and money launderers. The FC often is the entire economy, so-ring fencing is more difficult. Finally, some specific jurisdictions in federations such as the USA and Canada offer particular incentives such as short-term tax relief for financial firms based there so as to grow the human capital. For example, tax relief is given based on how many locals are employed in high-value roles. The end-game here is to grow a stronger set of human resources that will in their turn generate even more economic benefit long-term. The ultimate goal of the NIFC has not been set out. But we can speculate that the following will be high on Treasury&rsquo;s list of outcomes: First, a much-improved human resource base for complex and global financing, which would serve the needs of a country like Kenya as we remain a trade-driven nation. Second, a strong tax base once we have financial services as a larger proportion of our economic output. Finally, a financial centre that helps deal with the broader issues of unemployment through fostering labour-intensive investments. ALSO READ: Matatu owners sue firms over 'faulty' PSVs If all this is true &ndash; and remember no one has detailed any of the NIFC plans beyond high-level, feel-good rhetoric - then presumably some issues will be addressed in the near future. These include what the status of the NIFC will be. Is it an onshore tax haven, an operational hub integrated into the broader economy or just a few corporate incentives without any specific form? Also, what will be the status of contracts and transactions made through NIFC? Will they be subject to local laws or a special dispute resolution mechanism specific to NIFC? Presumably, answers to these questions have already been drawn up and the new NIFC Authority will soon be operational and begin to roll out policies addressing all this. One hopes for speedy setup of the authority, there is certainly a lot of work to be done! - Deepak Dave, of Riverside Capital Advisory, works with investment banks and private capital firms in Africa and other emerging markets. He played a voluntary role in the research and consultations on the NIFC.