Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi has hit out at his Kadu Asili rival Kazungu Kambi claiming he is a puppet of Jubilee Party. While campaigning for his re-election in Ganze yesterday, Kingi told voters in Kilifi to judge him based on his development record. The governor said he was the only candidate who understands issues affecting local residents. On Sunday, Kambi claimed Kingi had failed to tackle poverty in the region and should be voted out. And speaking during another rally at Mwanamwinga ward in Kaloleni yesterday, Kingi reiterated that the former Labour Cabinet Secretary was being sponsored by Jubilee. Kingi claimed Kambi wanted to use the coastal vote to lobby for a deal with President Uhuru Kenyatta&#39;s administration which he served before he was sacked in 2015. ALSO READ: NASA leaders call for vigilance to curb elections rigging The governor claimed the Kadu Asili leadership had failed Coast residents. Speaking earlier in Jaribuni ward where he had sought audience with local opinion leaders in Ganze and Jaribuni, the governor said all his rivals lacked vision to lift the people of Ganze out of poverty since they had sold their souls to Jubilee. But while campaigning in Mtwapa on Sunday, Kadu Asili leaders questioned Kingi&#39;s development record and demanded accountability for money disbursed to the county government since 2013. Kadu Asili party senatorial seat aspirant Lucas Maitha told Kingi to prepare for defeat if he cannot account how he spent the devolved funds. Maitha was speaking at a rally in Mtwapa which was also attended by Kambi and other Kadu Asili party candidates. &quot;Treasury has been giving Kilifi County more than Sh9 billion as devolved funds which tallies to Sh40 billion after four years. The funds have to be accounted for before he seeks re-election as the governor,&quot; said Maitha. Kambi, who was sacked from the Kenyatta cabinet following graft allegations that were never proved, asked Kilifi residents to reject Kingi and Jubilee candidate Gideon Mung&#39;aro claiming he is the only candidate with a clean track record. ALSO READ: Stage set for battle royale as county chiefs cleared &quot;I did many things as the MP for Kaloleni, especially education of the children, and that is what I want to do because Kingi has failed,&quot; said Kambi who lost the Kaloleni seat in 2013. [Willis Oketch and Patrick Beja]&nbsp;