Trans Nzoia County Commissioner Anne Gakuria got into trouble with residents for preaching Jubilee&rsquo;s agenda in her Madaraka Day speech. Ms Gakuria proclaimed that the Jubilee government will win the August 8 elections much to the chagrin of the audience. &ldquo;This Government will be back in power to complete its projects and you need to know that,&rdquo; she said amidst the chants. But the big crowd, which had turned up for the celebrations at Kitale showground, shouted her down with chants of &ldquo;NASA&rdquo;. It took the intervention of Deputy Governor Stanley Tarus to calm the crowd, which only backed down after Tarus said they were free to elect leaders of their choice. Dr Tarus said the region was an Opposition stronghold and shouted &ldquo;NASA&rdquo; to the delight of the crowd. ALSO READ: Governors fold their shirt sleeves to defend seats amid assault by rivals &ldquo;We are free to elect the leaders we want. As you may know, this region has a strong support for NASA so don&rsquo;t worry. Cast your vote for your preferred leaders on August 8,&rdquo; he said. Speaking at the event, Governor Patrick Khaemba said the Jubilee government was withholding title deeds meant for the county&rsquo;s residents even after his administration paid for them to be processed. Secret celebrations He asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to release the documents, saying residents cannot utilise their land without them. In Meru, Governor Peter Munya accused national Government officials of excluding him from the Madaraka Day celebrations. Mr Munya said the national Government officials held the celebrations in &ldquo;secrecy&rdquo; in Nkubu instead of Meru town where the celebrations are normally held. Munya said as governor, he was to be the chief guest at the celebrations and questioned why the officials excluded him from programme. ALSO READ: Governors fold their shirt sleeves to defend seats amid assault by rivals &ldquo;Madaraka Day is organised jointly by the national and county Government. We share the cost of hosting such celebrations, but the County Commissioner sneaked it out to Nkubu,&rdquo; he said Munya said the fete was to be held at Kinoru stadium, two kilometres from Meru town. &ldquo;We heard that it was to be held at Mikinduri or Gikumene, but they sneaked it out to Nkubu,&rdquo; Munya said when he addressed a rally at Mikinduri. County Commissioner Wilfred Nyagwanga was not available for comment. Meanwhile, Munya has also said that national Government officials in the county have colluded with his rival to rig him out in the August elections. While addressing his supporters at Mikinduri Primary School in Tigania East on Thursday, he asked voters to help him guard his votes. &ldquo;We know about the meetings held by the administrators which they call peace meetings but they are planning how they will rig me out,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;We are determined and we will make sure that the process is free and fair.&rdquo; ALSO READ: Why Jamleck Kamau dropped his bid for Murang&rsquo;a top seat