Former Cabinet Secretary Charity Ngilu has waded into the controversy that followed what appears to be Kitui West MP Francis Nyenze and Kitui Senator David Musila&rsquo;s endorsement of Jubilee&rsquo;s policies while they are in the rival NASA that is battling it out for the presidency with Jubilee. Yesterday Ngilu said it was a waste of time to sing President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s praises in attempts to market Jubilee in Ukambani. At the same time, Mrs Ngilu challenged her rival for the Kitui governor&rsquo;s seat, Musila and Nyenze to brace for voters&rsquo; wrath in the August 8 elections for &ldquo;being political traitors at home.&rdquo; Said Ngilu: &ldquo;Musila and Nyenze should be told plainly. You cannot be political traitors at home by going against a bedrock voting pattern. The voters will whip both of you out at the ballot&rdquo;. Drumming up support for her bid at Mulutu, Ithiani, Tiva and Kyamathyaka in Changithya West locations in her former Kitui Central constituency, Ngilu said it was unfortunate that when the Kamba community was consolidating its support behind Wiper leader and NASA presidential running mate Kalonzo Musyoka, Musila and Nyenze were busy trying to derail the people&rsquo;s hopes to presidency this time round. She urged the residents to reject political leaders allied to Jubilee, saying she was the last sacrificial lamb in Uhuru&rsquo;s regime in the 2013 elections. ALSO READ: Musila, Nyenze praise Jubilee, asks voters to elect worthy leaders Ngilu said the writing was on the wall and indications were clear that Kenyans would overwhelmingly vote for NASA and send Jubilee packing. She said this year&rsquo;s polls would be a replica of 2002 elections when National Rainbow Coalition&rsquo;s team consisting of her, former President Mwai Kibaki, NASA&rsquo;s presidential candidate Raila Odinga and Kalonzo beat Kanu&rsquo;s retired President Daniel Moi and Uhuru. At the weekend, Nyenze praised the Jubilee administration for creating jobs for the youth in his constituency. Criticism was swift with the Wiper Secretariat distancing itself from the MP&rsquo;s sentiments. In a rejoinder, Nyenze denied being a Jubilee supporter clarifying that his praise was based on the reality that jobs had been created. In a TV interview, Musila also denied supporting Uhuru, saying he only praised the President&rsquo;s achievements.