NHIF commemorates 50 years of increased access to affordable healthcare for all Kenyans through a nationwide, Cardiac program which was launched in October 2016. The program sought to provide lower-risk cardiac interventions locally, improve timeliness and access of safe and ethical cardiac care for Kenyan patients while simultaneously creating a structure that incentivizes excellence and economies of scale in national cardiac care delivery. The initiative was to save the lives of cardiac patients with &ldquo;sick hearts&rdquo; &ndash; patients who have been waiting for treatment for a number of years due to lack of funds. The initiative&rsquo;s purpose is to inform the NHIF of risk associated with local treatment, to improve the triage process for local or international treatment decisions, and to assist local providers in improving their clinical services. These goals are directly aligned with Kenya&rsquo;s strategy for increased national capacity, and will result in optimized distribution of limited health resources for greatest curative impact, and expanded domestic healthcare self-sufficiency. Cardiac surgery needs Kenyan citizens to outweigh the country&rsquo;s national healthcare capacity, with lengthy processing times and procedures too costly to refer every case overseas. ALSO READ: Sneaking patients owe Kenyatta National Hospital Sh500m Kenya&rsquo;s cardiologists and cardiac surgeons, as well as their supporting facilities and clinical colleagues are capable of performing quality, lower-risk open-heart surgeries &ndash; and, when conducted among an appropriately-identified patient population, routine local performance of these interventions over time can increase national capacity for handling more complex cases. &nbsp; There is need to create awareness about congenital heart disease and rheumatic heart disease in Kenya. Approximately eight in every 1000 live births in Kenya result in diagnoses of congenital heart disease, and rheumatic heart disease affects approximately 200,000 people annually through common infections. The cardiac program was discussed in detail during the &lsquo;cardiac care indicator project&rsquo; conference held on the 8th of June 2017 at the Panafric hotel. The conference brought together Cardiothoracic and Cardiac surgeons to exchange best practices, experiences and lessons from the &ldquo;The Cardiac Care Program.&rdquo; The conference gathered key eminent persons in the cardiology field and various stakeholders engaged in the NHIF @ 50 cardiac care indicator project. The intent was to provide a platform for exchange of best practices in the on-going cardiac care indicator project and enrich experience for all participants - cardiothoracic surgeons and cardiologists. The NHIF fully finances the program which is delivered through local partner hospitals. The cardiac care program is implemented by NHIF with the intent to alleviate the suffering experienced by the patients during the long wait for surgery within Kenya. ALSO READ: Sneaking patients owe KNH Sh500m &nbsp; The benefit package was also informed by NHIF&rsquo;s goal to reduce the backlog of heart condition patients, after analyzing the numerous requests on financing such heart conditions. These include patient pre-assessment, treatment, and post-treatment care for up to six months after a cardiac procedure has been performed by the healthcare provider. Out of 1435 patients found on the waitlist, 262 patients have been treated for open heart surgeries and interventional procedures- 179 Open heart surgery cases and 83 Interventional procedures. The program is on-going and targets needy cases already in the waiting lists of various partner hospitals, unable to receive treatment mainly because of inadequate financing. Where is the program being implemented? NHIF is collaborating with several local hospitals to handle cardiac cases according to each facility&rsquo;s available manpower and equipment to support the program. These hospitals include Kenyatta National Hospital, Coast Provincial General Hospital, Mater Hospital, The Karen Hospital, The Nairobi Hospital, Nairobi West Hospital, Tenwek Mission Hospital, Eldoret Hospital, The Gertrude&rsquo;s Children Hospital, and M.P Shah Hospital. &nbsp; How did this initiative come about, and how do patients join the cardiac program? ALSO READ: Doctors fault starving of KNH surgery patients Intensive consultations with various stakeholders about the desperate need for funded cardiac care in Kenya led to the development of the NHIF @50 Cardiac Program as an intervention in line with the surgical benefit package which had been approved by the Board. Patient intake begins with the hospital waitlists which had accumulated overtime mainly due to financing and capacity challenges. As the program manager, A&amp;K Global Health, an Agile Health Systems Company, contacts waitlisted patients by telephone to determine their health status and administrative eligibility; an active NHIF card is required for enrollment into the cardiac program. &nbsp; Once enrolled, patients are distributed to participating hospitals to determine their clinical fitness for surgery through pre-screening and diagnostic confirmation. Patients are then scheduled to receive the cardiac intervention suited to their needs. The NHIF finances the program which is delivered through local partner hospitals. The cardiac care program is implemented by NHIF with the intent to alleviate the suffering experienced by the patients during the long wait for surgery within Kenya. &nbsp; The benefit package was also informed by NHIF&rsquo;s goal to reduce the backlog of heart condition patients, after analyzing the numerous requests on financing such heart conditions. These include patient pre-assessment, treatment, and post-treatment care for up to six months after a cardiac procedure has been performed by the healthcare provider. ALSO READ: President Uhuru mourns Reverend John Gatu Out of 1435 patients found on the waitlist, 262 patients have been treated for open heart surgeries and interventional procedures- 179 Open heart surgery cases and 83 Interventional procedures. The program is on-going and targets needy cases already in the waiting lists of various partner hospitals, unable to receive treatment mainly because of inadequate financing. Where is the program being implemented? NHIF is collaborating with several local hospitals to handle cardiac cases according to each facility&rsquo;s available manpower and equipment to support the program. These hospitals include Kenyatta National Hospital, Coast Provincial General Hospital, Mater Hospital, The Karen Hospital, The Nairobi Hospital, Nairobi West Hospital, Tenwek Mission Hospital, Eldoret Hospital, The Gertrude&rsquo;s Children Hospital, and M.P Shah Hospital. &nbsp; &nbsp;