A Parliamentary Committee has returned a verdict that Kenyans will not get value for money in a multi-billion shilling flagship government project to equip county hospitals with modern medical equipment. The Parliamentary Departmental Health Committee has in a report on the status of the implementation of the controversial Sh38 billion Managed Equipment Services (MES) programme, poked holes in the project meant to make healthcare accessible to all Kenyans. The report was tabled by Committee vice chairman Robert Pukose on Tuesday. In what is likely to spark fresh debate over the controversy that surrounded the procurement of the health equipment, the report paints a gloomy picture of the project launched in 2015, falling short of concluding that Kenyans will not get value for money. The committee members visited ten medical facilities across the country and established that there is lack of infrastructure and support system for the equipment placement. In other institutions they noted lack of full disclosure of the contract details. &ldquo;Most of the health facilities seemed be ill-prepared while others do not have the capacity to accommodate the equipment. Low power voltage that requires upgrading for the equipment to be functional was noted in some hospitals,&rdquo; the report. &ldquo;Some hospital heads were not aware of the exact equipment expected. As such some MES providers had supplied incomplete sets of equipment. The management were unable to verify if all the equipment and supplies had been received,&rdquo; adds the report. In most health facilities in Kericho, Kapsabet, Malava and Machakos counties, the committee observed that there was lack of specialised personnel to operate the machines and equipment delivered. &ldquo;Renal dialysis and mammography services only attracted two and four patients a day on average in Kakamega and Machakos counties respectively. This is despite the enormous demand of these services.&rdquo; The committee is urging the Health ministry to consult county governments because they are the project implementers.&nbsp;