A government pathologist has contradicted initial police reports on Sunday night&rsquo;s killing of the Mumias Sugar Company&rsquo;s legal officer. Initial police reports indicated that Mr Ronald Lubya was shot in the head by his attackers who also stole household goods from his Mumias home. But Tuesday, Nyanza regional government pathologist Solomon Sava told family members that his preliminary findings showed that Lubya suffered a fatal blow to the head caused by a blunt object, which was also used on his chest and arms. Dr Sava, who conducted a postmortem at the Avenue Hospital in Kisumu, did not elaborate on the findings and promised to give a comprehensive report today. Firm verdict The doctor was firm that Lubya did not die from bullet wounds. ALSO READ: Mumias Sugar legal manager shot dead in Kakamega Nelson Chagenya, a cousin of the deceased who spoke to the media on behalf of the family after the briefing by the pathologist, said the postmortem showed that Lubya&rsquo;s skull was fractured by a blow to the head. &ldquo;I would like to correct what came out in the media that Lubya was shot. The postmortem has shown that he was hit using a blunt object repeatedly on the head, chest, and arm. No bullet was lodged in his head and there was no exit point, just the fractures,&rdquo; he said. Western Kenya Regional Police Commander Moses Ombati had told journalists at the scene that the Mumias legal manager and secretary had been shot using a gun fitted with a silencer. The woman introduced to journalists as his wife at Lubya&rsquo;s newly built Matungu home also said she heard a gunshot and was rushing to Lubya&rsquo;s rescue when she was seized at the door by gunmen. Another woman has come out to claim that she is Lubya&rsquo;s wife. She has disowned her alleged co-wife, who was with Lubya at the time of the attack. Caroline Musembi claimed that she and Lubya had a home in Chavakali. &ldquo;That is where he will be buried,&rdquo; she said. ALSO READ: MPs allege government plan to sell out Mumias Staff quarters She denied knowing the woman who was with Lubya, saying she only knew that he was living at the sugar company&rsquo;s staff quarters. Ms Musembi, who witnessed the postmortem, was flanked by other family members, including Lubya&rsquo;s sister, Nancy Mudeheli. Police have yet to make any arrests over the murder but said the killing seemed to have been planned and that they were following leads. Initial reports indicated that Lubya was killed in his compound by two men in police uniform after he stepped out of his house at 10pm on Sunday. Accounts by the woman, who witnessed the murder, indicated that after Lubya was shot and his body dragged into the house. The sugar company&rsquo;s board of directors has demanded speedy investigations into the killing. ALSO READ: DP Ruto says bailout at Mumias frustrated by managers The board&rsquo;s chairman, Kennedy Ngumbau, said only thorough investigations would help establish the motive of the killing.