&nbsp; From right Gatundu South Member of Parliament Moses Kuria, Kisii Jubilee senatorial aspirant Charles Nyachae join local musician in a dance at Suneka in Kisii County on 20/06/2017.[photos by Sammy Omingo/Standard] Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria met hostility in Nyamira town after he started criticizing National Super Alliance (Nasa) Presidential candidate Raila Odinga. Kuria who has been in the Gusii region since Tuesday, was booed by a crowd that had gathered to listen to his speech in Nyamira town as he campaigned for President Uhuru Kenyatta. Kuria who made a stopover at Nyamira town matatu stage was heckled by rowdy youth who kept chanting praises of Nasa Presidential candidate Raila Odinga.&nbsp; He was accompanied by former Trade Minister Amos Kimunya and local Jubilee officials. His voice was drowned in cries of &quot;Nasa, wapi Unga&quot; (Nasa, where is mazie flour) even as he pleaded for calm. His attempts to calm the crowd by reading a list of projects the government has initiated in the county and locals appointed into plum state posts failed as the jeers continued. &ldquo;I have come to request you to vote for President Kenyatta because he loves you. He has appointed Mr Matiang&#39;i CS for Education, (Susan) Mochache PS and (Walter) Nyambati chairman as Jomo Kenyatta Foundation chairman,&quot; said Kuria above the din of more protests. ALSO READ: Raila: Jubilee working with military commanders to rig elections He continued: &quot; Mtakuwa ndani zaidi kama mtamuunga mkono Rais Kenyatta -( You will be more in government if you will support President Kenyatta). He furthers angered the already charged&nbsp; crowd when he attacked the opposition leaders by saying that Raila, Kalonzo and Musalia Mudavadi had collectively tried unsuccessfully seven times to capture the presidency. &quot;Raila has tried three time, Kalonzo twice and Mudavadi twice. How do you expect people who have tried to be President seven times to win this elections even if they have come together?&rdquo; he asked the gathering that kept heckling back.