The ongoing nurses&#39; strike enters its eighth day. With medical services partially devolved, both the national and county governments must address the issue, yet neither the President, his deputy or county governors have deemed it fit to do so. This is worrying, for it would seem their preoccupation is with political campaigns in readiness for the August 8 elections. Daily reports of deaths at hospitals across the country are depressing. A doctor at the Kakamega general hospital was not spared the pain of the strike, losing his eight-month-old baby, reason being that nurses had locked up all oxygen cylinders; hence he could not find any to sustain the baby&#39;s life. From this gloom, there are other reports that several hospitals have been ordered to pay more than Sh38 million for mistakes arising from negligence. These include misdiagnosis, wrong medication and injections. Some of these cases have resulted in loss of life and disabilities. The greatest burden lies with gynaecologists who, since 2012, have been hit by 150 cases of malpractice, with surgeons coming a close second with 130 cases. In June 2016, two quacks were arrested in Nakuru County, having served as &#39;medical doctors&#39; for years. A similar case was reported in 2014 and as recent as this year, another individual was arrested in Eldoret&#39;s MTRH where he had masqueraded as a nurse for years. In 2015, two children died and seven others were admitted to hospital after getting measles vaccinations in Kerio Valley, Elgeyo Marakwet County from someone who was not qualified. The same year, wrong vaccinations in Busia resulted in paralysis in 28 children. These cases highlight serious negligence in a profession whose call is to save lives. It is inconceivable that there is so much laxity; individuals without accreditation can walk into any hospital and start serving either as nurses, clinical officers or doctors for years without detection. ALSO READ: Kakamega hospital doctor loses baby as nurses strike Once the pride of the region, our hospitals have lost appeal over such incidents. Streamlining medical services can no longer be kept on the periphery. There is every need to reclaim the people&#39;s lost confidence in our medical services.