President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s administration says it will facilitate construction of at least 500,000 low-cost houses in five years across the country. In his manifesto, the President says he will achieve this by working in partnership with financial institutions, private developers, manufacturers of building materials and cooperatives. The Jubilee administration is also promising to establish a National Social Housing Development Fund and create alternative financing strategies to finance low-cost housing and the associated social and physical infrastructure. It also says it will carry out an audit of 6,000 buildings per year to ensure their safety and security. It will also &lsquo;strictly&rsquo; enforce the protection of wetlands and water towers and operationalise the Water Sector Trust Fund to supply grants to counties to assist in financing of water services particularly to marginalised areas, rural areas considered not commercially viable and underserved urban areas. ALSO READ: President Uhuru outlines his major achievements Sports facilities In the sports, culture and arts sector, the Jubilee Government says it will continue to provide and improve sports facilities by finalising the construction of three major new stadia in Nairobi, Mombasa and Eldoret along with the Kenya Academy of Sports. It is also promising to upgrade regional stadia in Kiambu, Makueni, Elgeyo Marakwet, Marsabit, Nyeri and Chuka. It will encourage and support national football clubs, invest in setting up youth teams and provide the sporting facilities. The refurbishment Among the achievements Jubilee has noted include the refurbishment of Mombasa, Kisumu and Kipchoge Keino Stadium in Eldoret. The Jubilee manifesto is also promising to protect athletes from doping by sustaining anti-doping education and sensitisation campaigns through the proposed National Sports, Culture and Arts Fund. ALSO READ: Jubilee to save Sh1trillion in five years to pay ballooning debt It says it will also implement the Finance Act of 2015 incentivising and growing the local film industry, as well as a rebate system aimed at directing more international film-makers to Kenya. &ldquo;The Government will complete the ultra-modern national library at Upper Hill in Nairobi and fully operationalise the Kenya Film School,&rdquo; the manifesto adds.