NASA leaders have accused Jubilee of masterminding the food crisis and the high cost of living to benefit cartels. Presidential candidate Raila Odinga, who spoke as Opposition chiefs started their tour of the Coast region yesterday, also claimed President Uhuru Kenyatta and his family were beneficiaries of &#39;alteration&#39; of the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) route from its original course. The NASA brigade which addressed rallies in Kilifi and Lamu also accused the Jubilee administration of perpetrating extra-judicial killings. Raila said Jubilee was also enforcing superficial land reforms because they were not interested in a comprehensive solution to historical injustices. &quot;The original cost of the railway line conceived by the coalition government was inflated by Sh100 billion when Jubilee took over in 2013,&quot; Raila said. He said the SGR route was diverted to Naivasha and there are plans to move all port operations to the Rift Valley town. ALSO READ: Nairobians devise tricks to access low-cost maize flour Raila addressed several rallies in Kilifi County before joining Senator Moses Wetang&#39;ula and Musalia Mudavadi in Lamu for an Iftar dinner with Muslims who were breaking the fast of Ramadhan. &quot;Jubilee is incapable of bringing change. Even the subsidised maize flour that was to retail at Sh90 is not available in most parts of the country, save for Central region where Uhuru comes from and Sugoi, Deputy President William Ruto&#39;s home,&quot; said Raila. Raila, who was accompanied in the Kilifi visit by area governor Amason Kingi and Mombasa&#39;s Hassan Joho, among others, accused Jubilee of creating artificial poverty, causing food shortages and enriching key Jubilee leaders at the expense of ordinary citizens. Kingi accused Uhuru and Jubilee of displaying open favouritism for Central region through debt waivers and subsidy for farmers. He said the President had also launched of a top cancer hospital and mega projects in his region while neglecting other areas. &quot;Under Uhuru, all Kenyans outside the Central and Rift Valley regions have been reduced to second-class citizens. They have to beg for development,&quot; said Kingi. Kingi said under Jubilee, Kenyans outside Central had been reduced to second-class citizens and were required to beg for development. &quot;Uhuru has waived debts for coffee farmers in Central Kenya but has refused to put a single coin in efforts to revive of the cashew nut and milk sectors at the Coast.&quot; ALSO READ: Four arrested in Malindi for inflating maize flour price Juho asked locals to reject Jubilee in the August 8 elections. &quot;They have even retained the provincial administration to terrorise governors and sabotage devolution,&quot; Joho said. In Lamu, Mudavadi and Wetang&#39;ula claimed Jubilee government caused a shortage of maize and sugar to justify imports to benefit cartels. Patrick Beja, Benard Sanga, Jane Mugambi [email&#160;protected]