President Uhuru Kenyatta took his campaigns to Tharaka Nithi County where he urged residents to give him a second term in office. Uhuru, who held roadside rallies in Mukothima, Kibunga, Chiakariga, Kathwana, Chogoria and Marima, took the Jubilee Party manifesto to Tharaka Nithi residents after it was formally launched in Nairobi on Monday evening. He made a case for his re-election saying Jubilee had delivered and should be allowed another term. &quot;Jubilee is a caring government and we have proved it through the development we have implemented here and across the country,&quot; said the head of State. FOUR YEARS The President issued residents with 7,137 title deeds, bringing the total number of titles delivered nationally by the Jubilee government over the past four years to more than three million in line with pre-election pledges. ALSO READ: Opinion: Jubilee manifesto holds promise for Kenyans He said the presentation of titles, including one for Tharaka Campus, a constituent college of Chuka University, would be followed by another 13,000 that were ready for issuance in the county. &quot;We said we had a solution to the land problem and promised to deliver thee million titles so Kenyans could have title deeds to effectively use their land and improve their lives,&quot; said the President, adding that he was glad to have fulfilled that pledge. Speaking in Tharaka constituency, Uhuru took a swipe at Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka, saying he had no development record after a 35-year political career. Uhuru&#39;s attack on National Super Alliance (NASA) presidential candidate Raila Odinga&#39;s running mate appears to have been in response to Kalonzo&#39;s claims that the Jubilee administration had marginalised Tharaka. &quot;Kalonzo is your neighbour here and yet has nothing to show in the region, but he is daring enough to criticise us when in four years we have built the first tarmac road, a technical college and a university here,&quot; said Uhuru in Kibunga and later in Marimanti. Tharaka neighbours&nbsp;Kalonzo&#39;s home county of Kitui, where a section of the (Tharaka) community lives. Uhuru said his government had appointed senior leaders from the area and given them prime positions, citing Kithure Kindiki, the Senate leader of majority, and Tharaka MP Mburi Muiru, the parliamentary Lands committee chairman. NASA considers Tharaka a swing constituency but the ruling coalition believes it is a Jubilee stronghold. Raila has campaigned there twice this year. He was accompanied by Kalonzo and Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi on one of the visits. ALSO READ: State modifies laws governing social media use Uhuru said Jubilee built the Chiakariga to Mitunguu section of the delayed Ena-Ishiara-Chiakariga-Mitunguu-Meru town highway, known popularly as Mate Road. He said his administration was the first to build a tarmacked road in the county. The Government has invested more than Sh12 billion to improve the county&#39;s road network with projects including the Ciakariga-Marimanti-Gatunga 36km stretch at a cost of Sh1.9 billion, the 23km Chogoria-Weru-Marima-Kiriani road that will cost Sh1 billion, and the 30km St Mary&#39;s, Kinoro, Chuka Boys, Igoji Teachers College and Kanyakine access roads at a cost of Sh2.3 billion. Accompanying Uhuru was Deputy President William Ruto, who assured residents that one of the 57 mega dams the Jubilee administration planned to construct would be in Tharaka Nithi to end water shortage. Mr Ruto called on Tharaka residents to embrace a &#39;six-piece&#39; suit voting pattern in favour of Jubilee, saying the party had delivered on its pledges. SHOUTING MATCH Uhuru and Ruto campaigned for Jubilee candidates without the resistance witnessed in neighbouring Meru County at the weekend. But in Chiakariga and Kathwana, supporters of Governor Samuel Ragwa and senatorial candidate Francis Kiambi engaged in a shouting match. Ruto said the Government would provide internet access in all locations to enable online jobs and trading to thrive. Uhuru said the Government would also launch free maternity deliveries in mission hospitals. ALSO READ: State modifies laws governing social media use &nbsp;