Outgoing Mumias Sugar MD Errol Johnson MUMIAS, KENYA: Mumias Sugar Company has appointed Nashon Aseka as the new Managing Director (MD) to replace Errol Johnson. Mr Aseka worked at the company previously as the factory manager. The company&rsquo;s Board chairman Dr Kennedy Mulwa confirmed the appointment asking all stakeholders at the company to support the new MD. &ldquo;Yes, he has been appointed to head the company. We are restructuring the management to ensure the company returns back to its normal operations,&rdquo; Mulwa said on phone. ALSO READ: Mumias Sugar Company's legal manager-Ronald Lubya killed &ldquo;The board has agreed to fire some of the managers to ensure efficiency at the company and we want everybody to support the new team. We have to get back the company to its feet.&rdquo; On Thursday while meeting leaders from western region, President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto said the Government will give the company additional Sh 3.6 billion bailout. The Head of State accused opposition leaders for contributing towards the near collapse of Mumias Sugar Company. &ldquo;We know some leaders hiding in NASA are to blame for the woes affecting Mumias Sugar Company. Some of them owe the company some money and they should pay it. They were in power when these companies faced financial crisis,&rdquo; President Kenyatta told the leaders at Kakamega State Lodge. Former ODM national youth leader Rashid Mohammed (Jubilee MP Aspirant Mumias West) who attended the meeting said top on the agenda was how to revive Mumias which is currently facing a closure threat. He revealed that the Government has accepted their request for additional Sh 3.6 billion. &ldquo;The Government will release Sh 1.8 billion within two weeks to facilitate revival process of the company,&rdquo; said Mohammed. ALSO READ: Mumias Sugar legal manager shot dead in Kakamega Mumias Sugar Company Board appoints Nashon Aseka as new Managing Director; President Uhuru this week pledged further Sh3.6b for firm&rsquo;s bailout.