The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) Friday cleared three more candidates to vie for the Mombasa gubernatorial seat. This brings to six the number of candidates contesting the seat currently held by Governor Hassan Joho. Friday, Senator Hassan Omar (Wiper), Suleiman Shahbal (Jubilee) and Daniel Munga (Kadu Asili) were cleared by the IEBC and all exuded confidence that they will win. On Thursday Joho, Nyali MP Hezron Awiti of Vibrant Party of Kenya (VPK) and Anthony Chitavi of United Democratic Party were given a green light to seek for the elective seat. It was not clear why Dr Chibule Watsuma (Independent) and Mr Silas Otuke of Maendeleo Chap Chap did not show up although their names were in the IEBC list. &nbsp;Omar condemned those who&rsquo;ve been inciting their supporters and fanning hatred among the electorate. &ldquo;Those with a history of numerous incidents of violence in the course of election campaigns are known. We do not want IEBC to be a just issuing threats but action taken against them,&rdquo; the senator said. ALSO READ: Stage set for battle royale as county chiefs cleared Sympathy votes Omar said he expects Orange Democratic Party to reciprocate by campaigning for him in Mombasa given that the Wiper Democratic Movement has thrown its weight behind Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero. &ldquo;In Nairobi Wiper has over 300,000 votes and we will only campaign for ODM candidate and tell our people to vote for him if ODM support my candidature,&rdquo; said Omar. He criticised Joho, saying that the governor was alleging persecution or frustration by the national Government as a way of seeking sympathy votes on August 8. Meanwhile, there was confusion and panic among Jubilee supporters after Shahbal&rsquo;s running mate, Ananiah Mwaboza failed to appear before the IEBC. Mwaboza accompanied Shahbal from Star of Sea where the Jubilee supporters had converged but disappeared when the entourage arrived at the gates of Kenya School of Government where the clearance was taking place. But he later resurfaced saying he had been unwell. ALSO READ: Stage set for battle royale as county chiefs cleared