NASA leaders in Vihiga County. (Photo: Benjamin Sakwa/Standard) The National Super Alliance has pleaded with the electorate in Western region to turn up in large numbers and vote for its presidential candidate Raila Odinga. NASA principals Raila, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula said the region&rsquo;s over 1.9 million voters have the potential to decide who wins the next election, but it often only casts up to 70 per cent of the votes. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t let me down after struggling to create an alliance that has united all Kenyans. Come out strongly and vote the Jubilee government out,&rdquo; Mudavadi pleaded. &ldquo;The win we want must be respected not only locally, but also internationally. And youths who constitute over nine million voters should be at the forefront to steer change.&rdquo; Wetang&rsquo;ula said they want to make sure the region registers a 99.9 per cent voter turnout so that they can beat Jubilee hands down. ALSO READ: Raila is slowly falling into homestretch blunder trap, risks losing votes &ldquo;We are preaching to the already converted voters while we are here. Don&rsquo;t sit back and say Raila has already won. You have a responsibility to go out and vote for him in August. This election must be revolutionary,&rdquo; he said. Vihiga Senator George Khaniri said Raila was the only sure bet the country has right now to transform its fortunes. The NASA leaders pitched tent in Vihiga County in their fourth day in Western region in an attempt to lock their vote bloc after Jubilee made rounds in the area last week. Cost of living Raila said they will bring down the cost of living in their first 100 days in office, create job opportunities and offer free education. He promised that Kenyans will see a big difference between them and their competitors in terms of infrastructure, agriculture and education development if they take leadership. &ldquo;Jubilee has not lived up to its promises. The only projects ongoing in Western region are the ones initiated by the Grand Coalition Government. They have not offered anything else that can be an alternative,&rdquo; said Raila. He said that during their rounds across the country, they have realised all Kenyans are suffering because of famine and are tired of the leadership gap presented by Jubilee government. ALSO READ: Chaos and fraud part and parcel of Kenya&rsquo;s political campaigns &ldquo;The Kisumu-Kakamega-Webuye-Kitale road that is currently under construction is a project we initiated while in the coalition government. What else is Jubilee offering this region?&rdquo; he wondered. He said their free education plan will allow parents to only participate in sending their children to school without paying for anything, including school uniforms. This was the first time since NASA launched its campaigns that the team came to Vihiga, where a host of leaders lauded Mudavadi and Wetang&rsquo;ula for shelving their ambitions for Raila. &ldquo;Mudavadi shelved his presidential ambitions despite starting NASA because he cares for this country,&rdquo; said Siaya Senator James Orengo.