Three bodies, including two adults and a child, were found along with a plane wheel, two life jackets and some bags with clothes Bodies and aircraft debris have been found in the sea during the search for a plane which went missing over Myanmar . The military aircraft vanished on route from Myeik to Yangon with 122 soldiers, family members and crew on board on Wednesday. Three bodies, including two adults and a child, were found in the sea off the southern coast of Myanmar on Thursday by a navy ship. The discovery was made some 35 km (22 miles) from the southern coastal town of Launglon, the military said in a statement on its official Facebook page. A plane wheel, two life jackets and some bags with clothes - believed to be from the missing Chinese-made Y-8-200F transport plane - were also found. The plane went missing at 1.35pm local time (7:05am UK time) as it flew from Myeik to Yangon, the country&#39;s army said. The plane carried 122 passengers, including 108 soldiers and their family members and 14 crew. Among them were 15 children, 58 adults and 35 soldiers and officers. A major search and rescue effort has been scrambled to search for the plane, which was 20 miles west of Dawei over the Andaman Sea when it lost communication and vanished. Officials told AFP news agency that debris from the Chinese-built Shaanxi Y-8 aircraft had been recovered from the water following unconfirmed reports it had crashed. There are conflicting reports on the number of passengers as aviation officials said 105 people were on the flight but a military spokesman later declared it was 120. The passengers are believed to be servicemen based in the coastal region of Myeik in the Southeast Asian nation and their relatives and children. Freelance journalist Kayleigh Long, based in Myanmar, reported 90 &quot;military personnel&quot; were on the domestic flight. Kyaw Kyaw Htey, a civil aviation official at Myeik airport, said: &quot;The total number of people on the military plane is 105. We received this information from the airplane before departure. &quot;We don&#39;t know what exactly happened to this plane after the loss of contact.&quot; He said the weather had been &quot;normal&quot; with good visibility when the plane took off. According to local media, planes are used to fly military families based in remote locations to cities once a month. The cause of the disappearance is not yet known but it is not understood to be weather related.A source told the AFP news agency: &quot;We think it was a technical failure. Weather is fine there.&quot; Last February, five people were killed when a military plane crashed in the Myanmar capital Naypyidaw when it burst into flames soon after taking off. Aviation travel is busy in the country, partly to make up for the country&#39;s poor road and rail infrastructure.