President Uhuru Kenyatta has accused the National Super Alliance (NASA) of seeking to divide the country along tribal lines. Speaking at roadside rallies in Meru County, the President said NASA had demonstrated its main concern were the 10 million voters it claims are supporting the Opposition and not the whole population of 45 million Kenyans. He said NASA leader Raila Odinga&rsquo;s alleged sentiments against settlement of members of some communities in certain areas had shone through the Opposition chief&rsquo;s tribal tendencies. &ldquo;For us, we are conscious of where we are coming from and what the seeds of discord had cost this country and that is why we seek to promote peaceful co-existence of all Kenyans,&rdquo; said Uhuru. Tiny minority He said the Opposition&rsquo;s messages in recent days showed that its leaders main preoccupation was not the whole of Kenya&rsquo;s population but the tiny minority that it believed supported its leadership. ALSO READ: Justice Odunga declines to stop ballots tender &ldquo;As opposed, we seek to transform the lives of all Kenyans through innovative programmes such as free maternity care, last mile electricity connections and free primary and secondary schooling that will be rolled out from January,&rdquo; said Uhuru. The President said Jubilee will continue to respect Kenyans&rsquo; right to settle and own property and asked voters to reject leaders who are against that right. &ldquo;We will continue to respect that home is where one is settled, is trading, working, learning or farming and that all Kenyans have a right to call any part of this country home,&rdquo; he said. He announced that youth empowerment would be a key pillar in Jubilee Party manifesto, with a paid internship programme for all graduates of middle-level colleges and universities. &ldquo;Youths will be able to earn a stipend while working in government departments and private companies as they gain the much needed experience to get full-time jobs or open businesses that can employ even more youths,&rdquo; President Kenyatta said at Igoji. Deputy President William Ruto campaigned vigorously for Jubilee candidates, asking wananchi at all stop-overs in South Imenti, Central Imenti, Buuri and North Imenti to vote only for the party candidates. But that was received with mixed reactions and banners expressing support for independents sometimes outnumbered those of JP candidates. ALSO READ: Raila: We&rsquo;ll deploy five agents per station to shield votes That was the scenario at Igoji, Kanyakine and Nkubu towns where banners of South Imenti MP Kathuri Murungi went up in large numbers when Ruto started drumming up support for JP candidates. At the first stop at Igoji, the President acknowledged all the local leaders who had welcomed him when he landed at Igoji Teachers Training College. When he called out Governor Peter Munya to address the crowd, he was nowhere to be found. He appealed to Munya&rsquo;s supporters to back his presidential bid. &ldquo;I like to speak the truth. I know some will vote for Munya. I also want those votes,&rdquo; said President Kenyatta, who nonetheless referred to Senator Kiraitu Murungi as &ldquo;governor Kiraitu&rdquo;.