The National Super Alliance (NASA) has demanded the testing of August 8 poll technology. In a letter to Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) Chair Wafula Chebukati, the alliance makes a list of demands, among them assurances of the security of election data. NASA is also demanding a copy of the report of the audit of the voter register that was done by KPMG. The audit revealed that an estimated 1,037,260 dead voters could be on the IEBC roll. The report also revealed 264,242 double registration of voters and 171,476 registered using invalid identity cards. In the letter, NASA, referring to section 44 (4) (b) of the Elections Act, notes that the commission is enjoined to test, verify and deploy technology at least 60 days before a general election. NASA contends that the testing and certification required under the law has not been undertaken by the commission. The alliance insists that live testing, functionality, stress, and remote testing in real environment of all Kenya Integrated Elections Management System (KIEMS) has not been undertaken. ALSO READ: IEBC slaps Lusaka with steep fine over poll violence &quot;The testing that the commission undertook on the June 9 was nothing but a demo presentation,&quot; said the alliance in the letter. NASA also wants the commission to confirm if it has undertaken a systems audit as set out in the Elections (Technology) Regulations. The alliance also wants to know what mechanisms has the Commission has put in place to guarantee data availability, accuracy, integrity and confidentiality and safeguards adopted to detect, prevent and protect against attacks and compromise of the election technology. It also wants to know whether all the 41,000 polling stations will be connected to a virtual private network as guarantee for data authentication and integrity. The Opposition alliance wants clarification on measures taken to guarantee result accuracy, integrity and credibility and safeguards to detect, prevent and protect against attacks and compromise of&nbsp; the polls&#39; Results Transmission System (RTS). It is also seeking confirmation that a data recovery and operations continuity plan is in place and has been tested. The Opposition has also asked IEBC to give it a copy of the report of audit of the register of voters arguing that it is a public document. ALSO READ: Raila may be lying, but overlap in IEBC and Jubilee thinking is odd