OPPO Camera Phone brand has announced its partnership with Africa&#39;s leading online retailer JUMIA, as it aims to increase the sales of its Smartphone brand and set foot in the Kenyan market. OPPO is now confident that this partnership will increase sales of its products and provide a secure and convenient way for consumers to shop online. &#39;&#39;The Kenyan mobile phone market offers a favourable competitive landscape; this partnership will give our users a wide range of choice and will see them enjoy the best mobile phones at the most affordable prices.&#39;&#39;-&nbsp; OPPO KENYA CEO Mr. Andrew Peng said. We are excited to Partner with OPPO as they launch the OPPO F3 model in the Kenyan market. We are continuously looking to enhance the choice and quality that we provide to customers through innovative devices which provide a unique customer experience, the OPPO F3 is a prime example of this.&rdquo; Sanaz Abaie: Jumia Head of Category for Phones &amp; Tablets. &nbsp; The most recent Jumia White Paper on Smartphone&rsquo;s trends in Africa has noted that Kenyan&rsquo;s are becoming more trusting of e-commerce websites, with more of them willing to purchase on the move. This is largely driven by Jumia offering it&#39;s customers a cash on delivery option, a 7 day return period, and door-step delivery. ALSO READ: OPPO F3 phone hits Kenyan market The OPPO F3 that was launched a fortnight ago is one of several OPPO phones that will be available through the e-commerce platform. &ldquo;Majority of our target audience conducts most of their professional and social activities online which makes this deal with Jumia a natural progression for our brand,&rdquo; Mr Andrew added. The top tier mid-range Smartphone has a dual selfie camera feature with 4GM RAM and 64GB ROM, and currently retails at Kshs. 32,990. &nbsp; OPPO Mobile sees Kenya as a strategic conduit in the Eastern African market. &nbsp; OPPO Mobile, currently the largest in market share in China and fourth globally seeks to replicate its business model in Kenya which has made it a runaway success. OPPO is a camera phone brand enjoyed by young people around the world. For the last 10 years, OPPO has been focusing on manufacturing camera phones, while innovating mobile photography technology breakthroughs. OPPO started the era of selfie beautification, and was the first brand to launch smartphones with 5MP and 16MP front cameras. ALSO READ: We will not punish you, Raila tells UhuRuto OPPO was also the first brand to introduce the motorized rotating camera, the Ultra HD feature and the 5x Dual Camera Zoom technology. OPPO&#39;s Selfie Expert F-series launched in 2016 drove a selfie trend in the Smartphone industry.