&nbsp; Members of the Nubian community celebrating Eid Mubarak in Kibera Primary School yesterday. They held special prayers as a community.[Elvis Ogina, Standard] Nubians held special prayers yesterday as Muslims across the city came out in large numbers to celebrate Eid Ul Fitr, marking the official end of the holy month of Ramadhan. The Nubian community marked the festivities in a function officiated by their religious leader, Sheikh Yusuf Nasir, who led them in prayers to mark the rebirth of the Nubian nation, at Old Kibera Primary School. &ldquo;Muslims and Nubians, like any other tribe, make the Kenyan nation. Today we celebrate the rebirth of the Nubian nation,&rdquo; said Sheikh Nasir. Calls for unity Sheikh Nassir said the Nubian and Muslim community had been ignored for a long time, and the time for them to come out and prove they were part of Kenya had arrived. He called on the community to embrace unity and stand with their own. &ldquo;Let us be each other&rsquo;s keeper and keep hate away. We should embrace the good virtues in the society as a way of moving forward as a nation,&rdquo; said Sheikh Nasir as he underlined the importance of unity and brotherhood. The leaders raised issues on land and title deeds issued by President Uhuru Kenyatta, terming it a positive step and acknowledged efforts made in their favour. Ownership documents &ldquo;President Kenyatta issued the community with ownership documents for the 288 acres of land left of the Kibra military reserve, which was originally 4,197 acres when it was established in 1902. We are grateful and appreciate the effort,&rdquo; said Shaffie Ali Hussein, chairman Nubian Rights. Hussein invited all the communities in Kenya to participate in development and clarified that no one would be sent away from the land. &ldquo;We want to urge everyone to take part in the project as we plan to put up structures for the coming Nubian generation and end poverty. We will not chase anyone away,&rdquo; said Hussein. Alhad Ahmed Adam, the Makina MCA, urged the community to remain united and keep politics out of the matter. &ldquo;The process was long but this is progress. Let&rsquo;s not politicise the matter as this is our right,&rdquo; said Ahmed. They later gathered at the community&rsquo;s grave site in Kibra and gave thanks to Allah as they prayed for the souls of their departed relatives and friends.&nbsp;