Every day from 2pm, across from Eastmatt supermarket in Kitengela, you will find a group of people under a small tent debating vigorously. The issues range from political and social to economic, according to the agenda of the day. These are members of Kitengela&rsquo;s Bunge La Wananchi, which started in 1992. Though it is made up of NASA and Jubilee supporters, their debate lacks any animosity. They do not sit on opposing sides. To enhance debate, they have a megaphone and a chief whip to handle cases of indiscipline. &ldquo;When we started we had no seats or tents and would just meet under a tree and talk about politics. This was during the birth of multipartyism,&rdquo; recalls 53-year-old Charles Mula Musyoka. Musyoka helped to steer the group and watched the membership grow before retiring in 2013.&nbsp; The group now does more than just discuss the politics of the day. Preach peace &ldquo;We also talk about peace for our sub-county and work together with Nyumba Kumi and local administrators to ensure that peace prevails. We educate members that whether your political party wins or loses, peace should be the number one thing to be maintained at all costs,&rdquo; says Partimo Lenteo, the current chairman. He adds: &ldquo;The gathering is a centre of civil education for many.&rdquo; The group was registered in 2002, with 100 members under the name Kitengela Civil Education (Bunge La Wananchi) because police officers would frequently harass them, saying they were idlers. &ldquo;Since we registered, we are now a respected group of 600 but only 300 to 350 are active attendees. The local administration, including the county commissioner and his deputy, and even politicians, acknowledge it. Governor David Nkedianye bought us the tent that we use,&rdquo; says Vincent Ombongi, the vice chairman. According to Ombongi, the group meets every day to tackle the issues that affect the members. Helping members &ldquo;An elderly man brought it to our attention that he was not getting the stipend for the elderly. We accompanied him to the relevant authorities and now he is on the waiting list of beneficiaries,&rdquo; says Speaker Marcel Samora. He adds that the group also helps members in terms of welfare when a member has a problem such as outstanding school fees for his children or the death of a loved. Unlike many bunges elsewhere, the Kitengela forum does not dwell on politics alone.