A Jubilee point man in Kakamega County is under siege after being accused by local leaders and residents of buying voters cards and IDs from residents. While addressing The Standard in Kakamega town, the leaders led by Mumias East parliamentary aspirant Peter Kalewa Salasya they accused businessman Peter Tharau of coercing unsuspecting residents with goodies in exchange of the vital documents and asked the police to take stern action against him. &quot;We have information that the businessman is dishing out Sh500 &ndash; Sh1000 to voters across the county in exchange for their national IDs and Voters cards so that they will not participate in the August polls,&quot; said Salasya He alleged that the businessman was working under instructions from the Jubilee secretariat in collaboration with local Jubilee leaders to buy out voters in a bid to ensure voter turnout in the region is below per in the August polls. Salasya further said Jubilee heavyweights in the region held a closed door meeting at undisclosed place in the county where the plan was hatched. He said the businessman and other accomplices were in attendance alleging that the syndicate is also taking place in Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia. ALSO READ: Uhuru: NASA is dividing country along tribal lines &quot;We are not taking this matter lightly since we must guard our strongholds from being infiltrated by leaders who serve their selfish interests. Jubilee party should come clean on this issue and we are also demanding police to apprehend the businessman and explain what he knows about the whole saga,&quot; said the aspirant Joel Mbalanya, a hawker in Kakamega told the press that some of his friends had been approached by agents of the businessman to surrender their voters cards and IDs in exchange for money. In a quick rejoinder, businessman Peter Tharau admitted meeting President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto at the Kakamega state lodge last weekend but dismissed claims of buying voters cards from residents. Tharau said the Sh1 million they were given was meant for registration of youths and women groups as companies to enable them apply for tenders both from the County and the National Government saying the Jubilee government was committed at ensuring youths benefit from 30 per cent procurement opportunities set aside for them. &quot;The people tarnishing my name are those who did not receive the money since they had falsified documents. Why should I buy people&#39;s voters cards and IDs, how will that benefit me?&quot; he said Tharau also refuted claims that he has hired agents who walk around buying off voters in exchange of money and asked his accusers to table evidence that shows he is involved in the syndicate. &quot;I have received death threats in relation to the lies that I was buying voters and IDs from the electorate and then burn them so that they do not participate in the voting exercise in the August polls. I demand to be given security by the police as my life is in danger,&quot; said Tharau ALSO READ: Son chops off father's right hand while fighting over ODM campaign posters Our effort to reach Mumias East MP who is the Jubilee point man in the area for comments was futile as he did not pick our calls or respond to the text messages.