The Opposition has sensed defeat and is now preparing ground to reject the outcome of the August election, Jubilee has claimed. President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto said the National Super Alliance (NASA) leaders latest claims on the ballot papers tender were part of their scheme to reject the presidential results. President Kenyatta and Mr Ruto spoke yesterday during a whirlwind tour of Kiambu, where they also issued 1,700 title deeds to Kilimambogo squatters. Uhuru termed as &#39;noise&#39; the opposition&#39;s call to have the presidential results announced at the constituency level. He claimed the opposition was out to confuse Kenyans with rigging claims. &quot;All this noise you are hearing from the Opposition is only meant to precipitate a crisis that will lay the ground for the rejection of the presidential election results and force a coalition government,&quot; said the Head of State. ALSO READ: Parties should seize chance and offer country sound campaigns Uhuru urged residents of his home county, which has 1.67 million registered voters, to turn up in large numbers and ensure Jubilee government is re-elected. &quot;All I am appealing to you people of Kiambu is not to fail me come August 8. I urge you to turn up in large numbers come August 8 so that we win this election and hand the Opposition a resounding defeat,&quot; he said. Uhuru said his track record for the past four years spoke for itself, adding he was sure of securing a second term. &quot;We have connected millions of Kenyans to power, ensured mothers are delivering free of charge, equipped our hospitals. We want to continue with that work and do more,&quot; said the president. He retaliated that once Jubilee wins a second term, secondary education would be free in all public schools starting January next year. The Kiambu tour started with a service at the St Peter&#39;s and Paul&#39;s Catholic church, before Uhuru and Ruto split up, with the latter heading to Githunguri. Uhuru returned to Nairobi, briefly, where he joined members of the Akorino church at the Nyayo national stadium for their annual prayer meeting. He then left for Juja and Ruiru before meeting Ruto at the Thika stadium where they addressed a rally. ALSO READ: Kidero headache over NASA rivals The leaders were accompanied by Water Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa, Garissa Town MP Aden Duale and his Thika Town counterpart Alice Ng&#39;ang&#39;a. Speaking at Thika stadium, Uhuru accused Opposition chief Raila Odinga of propagating politics of ethnicity by inciting members of the Maasai community not to sell land to other communities. He urged opposition leaders to weigh their words carefully to avert chaos.