NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula at a rally in Bungoma County. (Photo: Benjamin Sakwa/Standard) NASA leader Raila Odinga Friday waded into Bungoma County&rsquo;s politics by campaigning for Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula to retain his Senate seat. He urged voters to overwhelmingly back Mr Wetang&rsquo;ula, promising to convince ODM candidate Bonface Nyongesa to step down. &ldquo;I will talk with Nyongesa and have him step down for Wetang&rsquo;ula so that he can overwhelmingly defeat Jubilee. I urge all of you to come out and fully support him in the elections,&rdquo; he said at Posta Grounds in Bungoma town. In the NASA leadership lineup, Wetang&rsquo;ula has been slotted the position of Deputy Premier Cabinet Secretary if the Opposition forms the next government. Raila however steered clear of Bungoma gubernatorial politics, instead urging the voters to choose the best candidate among the NASA affiliate parties. ALSO READ: Why I will not participate in the August 2017 polls &ldquo;I cannot choose a leader for you, you will decide from which affiliate party you want a leader for the various seats as all the parties are in NASA. You have the power to decide,&rdquo; he said. NASA affiliate parties have fielded governor candidates in the region in a bid to unseat Jubilee&rsquo;s Kenneth Lusaka. Those in the race are ODM&rsquo;s Alfred Khang&rsquo;ati, Ford Kenya&rsquo;s Wycliffe Wangamati and ANC&rsquo;s Stephen Mutoro. The Opposition leader hit out at the Jubilee administration, accusing it of failing Kenyans in the four years they have been in power. He said Jubilee leaders had failed to initiate meaningful development projects and were now waking up to the reality that they have failed the citizens. Raila said President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto had been asleep for four years and were now trying to hoodwink Kenyans by launching projects. He said the NASA administration will complete its projects on time. Lying to Kenyans &ldquo;They are now lying to Kenyans. We will help and show them how to complete projects on time,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: Why I will not participate in the August 2017 polls Nasa co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka said the Jubilee administration was not representative as other tribes have been left out. He said the NASA administration was keen on uniting Kenyans by having all the people represented in government. &ldquo;Our country needs to be united and NASA has the right mix to do so,&rdquo; he said.