Police are investigating the mysterious disappearance of a prominent athlete and Nyahururu businessman who went missing on Tuesday. Japan-based Daniel Njenga is feared to have been abducted by armed men along the Ol Kalou-Gilgil road. According to Nyandarua North OCPD Timon Odingo, Mr Njenga, who has been in the country since April, was on his way to pick his daughter from Pembrook Schools in Gilgil town when he was abducted. Reports indicate he was abducted after Ol Kalou town and his car, a Nissan X-Trail registration number KCG 317B, stolen. &quot;The businessman usually picks his daughter from the school daily and always drops her in the morning when he is in the country. He left Nyahururu at around 3pm but never got home,&quot; he said. The school management alerted Njenga&#39;s wife, Monicah, that the child had not been picked, prompting a search. The incident was reported at Gilgil Police Station. ALSO READ: Deaf athletes in exciting duels at Olmpics qualifiers Initial investigations indicate that Njenga last used his mobile phone in Wanjohi area of Kipipiri. Car spotted &quot;This is where he made his last calls, many kilometres from his destination,&quot; said Mr Odingo, adding that police have information that the car was spotted in Kinungi heading towards Nairobi later that day. &quot;We have people who spotted the vehicle being driven towards Nairobi. We are still following its location,&quot; he said. The police boss said search teams had combed the entire Wanjohi area in vain, but said investigations were ongoing. Njenga is the owner of several businesses in Nyahururu among them the Nyahururu Olympia Hotels and Nyahururu Sports Arena Hotel. He had his first athletics success in 1995, when he won the steeplechase gold medal at the 1995 Summer Universidad. ALSO READ: Wait, all is not lost: Coaches to assess performance He also won the Chiba International Cross-Country meeting and the Japanese Championships steeplechase race on three occasions. He has been based in Japan since the early stages of his career. Njenga turned to marathons and made his debut at the Mombasa Marathon in 1999, taking fourth place, before coming 10th in the Fukuoka Marathon.&nbsp;