The Pharmacy and Poisons Board Wednesday raised the alarm over increased use of fake sex-enhancing drugs in the Kenyan market. The board also warned about the use of counterfeit lifestyle, malaria, antibiotics, and vaccination drugs. The drug regulatory authority said although counterfeit antimalarial, antibiotics, and vaccination drugs were still in small quantities, they posed a danger to users. &quot;The major products that are being falsified or counterfeited are lifestyle drugs such as viagra, which is a sex-enhancement drug. We also have antimalarials, antibiotics, and vaccines, albeit in small quantities,&quot; said the board&#39;s head of the Crime, Investigation and Enhancement Unit, Denis Otieno. Mr Otieno was speaking in Mombasa at a meeting of customs experts from 18 African countries. They said counterfeit medicines were contributing to drug-resistance of diseases such as malaria and tuberculosis. According to statistics from the World Health Organisation, more than 120,000 people die in Africa in a year as a result of fake anti-malarial drugs. ALSO READ: Counterfeit products cost Kenya Sh30 billion in revenue The Kenyan Association of Pharmaceutical Industry estimates that counterfeit pharmaceutical products worth approximately Sh13 billion are sold in the country annually. Sandra Wens, a World Customs Organisation expert in combating counterfeits and piracy, said the falsified medicines have been linked to deaths in other parts of Africa. Wilfred Roger, a representative of the Institute of Research against Counterfeit Medicines, said the fake drugs also lead to increased resistance to treatment. &quot;Some factories have been established in parts of Africa to manufacture counterfeit drugs. More than 100,000 people die in the continent as a result of counterfeit drugs,&quot; he said. He added that the counterfeits account for Sh8.2 billion in Africa and called for concerted efforts by customs officials and relevant agencies to combat the menace. [email&#160;protected] ALSO READ: State cracks down on illegal cosmetics in Nairobi