The electoral agency Thursday&nbsp;cleared a number of&nbsp;governors&nbsp;to defend their seats, signifying the beginning of a titanic battle across the country. The most titillating confrontation was set off in Kakamega where the deputy party leaders of two National Super Alliance (NASA) affiliate parties are entangled in a do-or-die duel as they fight for control of Western region&rsquo;s seat of power. Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale sparked the fight immediately he was cleared yesterday when he asked NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga, who is also the ODM party leader, to concentrate on the presidential race and not to interfere with other elective posts in Western. &ldquo;When he is in Kakamega let him campaign for the presidency and not for&nbsp;governor, senator, woman rep and MP seats,&rdquo; he said. Bruising contest Kakamega&nbsp;Governor&nbsp;Wycliffe Oparanya will present his papers today and is expected to respond to the taunts directed at his party leader. ALSO READ: ODM leaders clash over six-piece voting Dr Khalwale, who was addressing his supporters at Muliro Gardens shortly after being cleared by the IEBC to vie for the gubernatorial seat, said Kenyans would vote out President Uhuru Kenyatta because his administration had let the cost of living become unbearable. In Bomet, NASA&rsquo;s point man in Rift Valley, Isaac Ruto, was cleared by IEBC and is facing the battle of his life as he defends his seat on a Chama Cha Mashinani ticket against National Assembly Deputy Speaker Joyce Laboso (Jubilee Party), who will present her papers today. Elsewhere in the city, Nairobi&nbsp;Governor&nbsp;Evans Kidero and his main challenger Senator Mike Sonko were yesterday cleared by the electoral body, setting the stage for a bruising political contest. Dr Kidero and Mr Sonko yesterday took a swipe at each other, with the&nbsp;governor&nbsp;claiming the legislator had failed in his role as senator. Sonko said Kidero had run down the capital city, questioning what he had done in the past four-and-half years he has been in charge. Kidero said the senator had failed in his role of promoting devolution, adding that the national government owed his administration Sh72 billion in rates, which the senator had failed to talk about. At the Coast, Mombasa&nbsp;Governor&nbsp;Hassan Joho was given the green light to defend his seat and he expressed confidence of retaining it. &ldquo;It was not an easy ride but through the grace of God I have today been cleared to defend my seat,&rdquo; said Mr Joho who promised to run an issue-based campaign. ALSO READ: Political dynasties: Family members jostle for elective seats He said the Jubilee regime had tried to use State agencies to lock him out of the August 8 contest but failed. For close to two years Joho has battled the Jubilee administration and publicly clashed with President Uhuru Kenyatta over the national government&rsquo;s policies at the Coast. He is battling claims that he forged a Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education results slip for 1992, claims he denies. Also cleared at the Coast were Kilifi&nbsp;Governor&nbsp;Amason Kingi - who faces off with Amani National Congress&rsquo; (ANC) Benjamin Dadu- and Kwale&rsquo;s Salim Mvurya, who will square it out with former minister Chirau Ali Mwakwere of Wiper. After clearance, Joho led MPs Abdulswamad Nassir (Mvita), Rashid Bezimba (Kisauni), Omar Mwinyi (Changamwe), Badi Twalib (Jomvu) and Mishi Mboko (Woman Rep) who were also cleared early in the morning for a tour in Mombasa town. The MPs said Joho was being persecuted because he had declared his interest to vie for the presidency in the 2022 General Election. His main challengers, Mombasa senator Omar Hassan who is seeking the seat on Wiper Democratic Party and businessman Suleiman Shaball will present their nomination papers today. In Busia, Funyula MP Paul Otuoma was cleared to run as an independent candidate, setting the stage for a battle against the incumbent, Sospeter Ojaamong. Mr Otuoma was the first to present his papers accompanied by his running mate Solomon Abwaku. ALSO READ: On this final stretch, show what you can do for Kenyans In Nairobi, independent candidate Miguna Miguna was earlier in the day turned away by IEBC officials after he submitted signatures of his supporters in jpeg format as opposed to the required excel. The abrasive lawyer, caused drama at the Kasarani Gymnasium Arena when he accused the media of &ldquo;propagating fake news&rdquo; to sabotage his candidature. In Machakos, there was a bitter war of words between&nbsp;Governor&nbsp;Alfred Mutua and his arch rival, former Kathiani MP Wavinya Ndeti after the two were cleared. And business came to a standstill in Kitui town yesterday when three gubernatorial aspirants&nbsp;Governor&nbsp;Julius Malombe, Senator David Musila and Narc party leader Charity Ngilu faced off as they presented their nominations papers to the electoral commission. All the three were given the nod at the Kitui&rsquo;s Kenya Forestry research institute (Kefri). Tharaka Nithi&nbsp;Governor&nbsp;Samuel Ragwa was also given the green light by electoral officials at Kenya Water Institute (KEWI) in Chiakariga as was Nakuru&nbsp;Governor&nbsp;Kinuthia Mbugua and three others. In a related development, Migori&nbsp;Governor&nbsp;Okoth Obado and his Kisumu counterpart Jack Ranguma were cleared to defend their seats in the August elections. But as Mr Obado retained his deputy, Mwita Mahanga, Mr Ranguma dropped his 2013 running mate Ruth Odinga. [email&#160;protected] ALSO READ: On this final stretch, show what you can do for Kenyans