Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero has ridiculed a move by the anti-graft body to block him from defending his seat over integrity issues. Kidero has sanitized himself from a list of leaders that originated from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) which contained his name as one of the 106 aspirants declared not fit to hold public office. EACC is said to have submitted the list to the Independent Electoral and Boundary Commission (IEBC) on Wednesday a day before the governor was cleared. &quot;That is cheekiness by the EACC. They are playing politics. I have already been cleared by the Kenya Revenue Authority and issued with a certificate of good conduct by the Criminal Investigation Department,&quot; said Kidero. Kidero claimed that the EACC is working under the coercion of some &#39;political masters&#39; who are out to frustrate his bid to defend his seat in the August 8 election. He said as it stands now, he has been cleared by IEBC to vie; a process he said was swift and full of professionalism: &quot;I have already signed the papers as it would appear on the ballot any otherwise effort is futile.&quot; ALSO READ: EACC reveals 106 leaders with pending integrity cases Kidero redeemed himself saying he has no investigations ongoing on him and he has not been served or charged in a court of law. &quot;EACC is serving their master (they know who their master is) to get us out of the election through the backdoor. But we shall win come August,&quot; said a confident Kidero. The governor&#39;s woos originate from a Sh200 million bribery claim to former Supreme Court judge Justice Philip Tunoi traced back during the hearing of an election petition in 2013 between him and the now Kiambu gubernatorial aspirant Ferdinand Waititu. The list by EACC also contained names of Meru governor Peter Munya, Machakos Dr Alfred Mutua, Kirinyaga gubernatorial candidate Ann Waiguru, Busia Sospeter Ojamoong, Migori Okoth Obado among other leaders. The list comes hot in heels after another one by a group of civil societies led by Transparency International-Kenya that contained names of 20 aspirants unfit to hold public office which also Kidero featured. The list was also submitted to the IEBC on May 24. ALSO READ: EACC reveals 106 leaders with pending integrity cases