Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto has told off Deputy President William Ruto over his remarks that his position in the NASA line-up is powerless. Speaking at Olepolos in Narok South, Governor Ruto affirmed that he was not &lsquo;Principal Number Five&rsquo; saying all NASA leaders have equal powers. &ldquo;I have heard some people claim that by voting for NASA and myself, the Kalenjin will not benefit. Do not be fooled. I am equally powerful and will use that position to deliver development,&rdquo; said Ruto. The governor at the same asked the community to pardon NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga of any ills he may have committed against the Kalenjin. &ldquo;What sin did Raila Odinga do to us (Kalenjin) that he cannot be forgiven?&rdquo; posed Ruto. The Chama Cha Mshinani (CCM) leader said a NASA government will restore dignity and development for all Kenyans by bringing down the cost of living that has hit through the ceiling under the Jubilee administration. ALSO READ: Ngeno sudden jump to Kanu complicates NASA equation &ldquo;We need a Kenya where farmers get value for their produce. Jubilee has insulted farmers. Imagine a farmer sells his milk at Sh30 per litre, the same amount is retailing at Sh140 in the supermarket. A farmer has to sell almost eight litres to buy a kilogramme of sugar which is now Sh200,&rdquo; wondered Ruto. Governor Ruto who shared a platform with Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, said he had no problem with KANU but the poor leadership of Jubilee. His close ally, Emurua Dikirr MP Johana Ngeno vowed to ensure that CCM gubernatorial aspirant Patrick Ntutu ascends to office. Ngeno also dismissed DP Ruto&rsquo;s 2022 presidential bid saying it will not materialise. He said that being near State House does not guarantee the DP victory in 2022. &ldquo;Come 2022 DP Ruto will be seeing State House on television just like the previous Vice Presidents. He will be out just like Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moody Awori who were in the position he is now,&rdquo; said Ngeno.