Sister Anastasia Amollo scooped the coveted Principal of Year Award (Poya) during the 42nd Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association (Kessha) conference in Mombasa, Friday. Sr Anastasia attributed the win to dedication and hard work in her 28-year stint as the Principal of St Mary&rsquo;s Lwak Girls School in Siaya County. &ldquo;It is dedication, love and passion for the girl child that has brought me to this level. A part from academic work, I also make sure my students explore their talents,&rdquo; she said. The Teacher of the Year Award (Toya) went to Phillis Kamau of Mahiga Girls High School in Nyeri County while Paul Kamau of Loreto High School Limuru won the ICT integration award. The panel behind the awards said the two teachers&rsquo; performance was exemplary in academic and co-curriculum activities, which made them them stand out among the 8,194 participants at the conference. The top principal and teacher got a standing ovation from colleagues, who broke into&nbsp; song and dance in praise of the winners. It was double joy for the winners after the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) declared they will be promoted to the next job group and their salaries and allowances increased. ALSO READ: Teachers want CBA payment plan renegotiated &ldquo;I&rsquo;m glad I have reached this level. I have put a lot of effort. Apart from class work I give my girls moral support and monitor their growth and development,&rdquo; Sr Anastasia said. The principal was awarded Sh100,000 and Ms Kamau Sh70,000. The top teacher was employed at Mahiga Girls in 2002 by the Board of Management before she was later confirmed by the TSC. She teaches Kiswahili and Geography and has since been promoted to deputy head teacher. &ldquo;I expected to do well this year but it never crossed my mind that I will be the overall winner. I thank God,&rdquo; said Kamau, who attributed her win to hard work. She dedicated the award to her students &ldquo;who accepted to do community work like cleaning streets and hospitals.&rdquo; Big surprise &ldquo;I sleep late and walk up early. I have been leading all through from the sub-county but this was a big surprise,&rdquo; she said. TSC Chief Executive Officer Nancy Macharia announced that the two will be promoted immediately. ALSO READ: State to employ 5,000 teachers &ldquo;Those that have won will be promoted immediately so that they can be factored in the new salary starting July. We will also ask that they are appointed ambassadors to instill the same professionalism in other schools,&rdquo; said Ms Macharia. It was clear female teachers were headed for a big win from the start of the annual meeting when they dominated most finalists in all the categories. &ldquo;It is clear that women work very hard and we have shown that we can lead by example,&rdquo; said a joyful Kamau after receiving the award. Sr Anastasia said her secret &ldquo;is dedication to mould students in all areas&rdquo; and dismissed the notion that best teachers are those whose students only excel in academics. Meanwhile, TSC Friday said it will cut budgetary allocation to the annual conference from next year as questions emerged about the value of the annual meetings. Ms Macharia said most head teachers who travel to Mombasa do not attend the conference to deliberate on issues affecting the sector which was a waste of public funds. &ldquo;We cannot continue with this waste of public funds. Most teachers who are absent from school and who have come to Mombasa do not show up in the conference,&rdquo; she said. The five day event came to a close Friday with school heads demanding that the TSC harmonise the medical scheme. ALSO READ: Kenyans feel there are inadequate teachers in public schools, survey shows