NAIROBI, KENYA: Veteran politician GG Kariuki has passed on. The Laikipia Senator passed on last night at a Nairobi hospital. He served as a Minister in President Jomo Kenyatta and Daniel Arap Moi governments. He is the fourth senator to pass on in the current Senate. Other senators who have passed on include Mutula Kilonzo (Makueni), Otieno Kajwang (Homa Bay), and Juma Boy (Kwale) According to family sources the veteran politician was admitted to the hospital last week and was pronounced dead at 11 pm on Thursday night in the presence of his family members. &quot;Our father has been ailing for some time now and has left us. We have been at the hospital for one week and it was only yesterday that he died in our presence.&quot; said Peter Thomi, the Githagi Ward MCA. Leaders in Laikipia County have mourned death of their leader who has served them in different capacities since 1969 ALSO READ: Politics of Death: Colonial scars and drought feed Kenya land wars Laikipia Governor Joshua Irungu, former Industrialisation minister Ndiritu Muriithi who preceded him as the Laikpia west MP all mourned the death of the veteran politician terming him as a guide to politics. &quot;He has been our father in politics and it is sad to learn of his death. This is very sad news to the Laikipia people and the country at large. He has been our guide in politics and the entire Laikipia leadership,&#39;said Ndiritu. On his part, Governor Irungu termed the politician as his mentor in both politics and family matters. The Senator who was defending his seat on the Jubilee ticket lost in the Jubilee nominations to former Mutara councilor John Kinyua. Since then, he has not been spotted in active politics but has been meeting his supporters at his both Killeshwa home in Nairobi and Rumuruti home in Laikipia west. He has been a strong supporter of the Jubilee Government and was nicknamed as Senator number one due to his elderly age having worked as the elders Senator in the country.&nbsp; ALSO READ: Laikipia ranchers hit out at Raila for supporting 'dismantling' of their farms