Three pedestrians were stabbed to death in a macabre attack by suspected thugs in Nairobi&#39;s Umoja area. The deceased included two women and a man and were all walking at the junction of Outer Ring Road and Umoja estate Wednesday night when they were attacked. Police said the attackers were riding on a motorbike and that they had attacked and robbed many locals. They first stabbed the two women killing them on the spot before confronting the man. The bodies lied at the scene for long before police on patrol found them. Police said after the stabbing, other pedestrians are said to have escaped from the scene leaving the victims to bleed to death. Nairobi police boss Japheth Koome said they believe the attackers were thieves who wanted quick money. &quot;We are still investigating the motive but preliminary findings show the gang wanted money and other valuables from the victims, which they grabbed,&quot; he said. The victims are yet to be identified but the process of knowing who they are is ongoing. They were all stabbed in the chest and stomach. Police were deployed to the area moments after the discovery of the bodies but no arrest was made. Another man had been stabbed to death in Sinai slums in the city increasing the number of victims of stabbing to four. The body of the man identified as Titus Mutunga was found near the railway line in the slum long after he had been attacked and killed. His valuables were missing. Police said he had a stab wound in the chest. Police say they are investigating the incident to know who was behind it. The bodies were moved to the mortuary. Elsewhere, a police officer was mugged and seriously injured as he walked to his place of work in Park Road area, Nairobi. The chief inspector of police attached to DCI headquarters was headed to work Wednesday morning when he was attacked by a gang that robbed him of his Sh6,000, mobile phone and his identity cards. He was not armed at the time of the incident. He sustained serious injuries in the neck and was rushed to hospital unconscious and police say they are yet to get those behind the incident. Cases of mugging rise in morning and evening hours in Nairobi.