We have seen and done a number of stories here on KTN News before drought in the country took a turn for the worse. The stories have focused on how famine is affecting children, women and those in far-flung areas in Kenya. Now, even the urban areas where famine was for many years an alien concept, something appears to have changed for the worse. The creeping hunger was epitomised in a video that went viral this past week. You may have seen it. If not, it shows people scrambling for unga in a supermarket. The video breaks my heart for so many reasons. First, because of the irony that unga is subsidised and yet still unavailable in many shops across the country. Second, because it is only the latest evidence of how this food shortage has debased and perhaps dehumanised us to an extent of having to scramble for unga. &nbsp; ALSO READ: Kidero headache over NASA rivals As a matter of fact, President kenyatta had to contend with tough questions from people who showed up for his rally in Kakamega. He experienced the awkward moment of having to give assurances that in truth have not been out at many supermarkets around the country. Whatever route we used to get to this deplorable state, the fact is that this is 2017- more than 50 years after independence. How can we not be able to provide basic food items for our families? We can go into the politics of subsidies, whether they are effective or whether this particular one was misguided. Anyway, that is a long story for another day. My point is that this should not be happening in Kenya today. The right to food is a basic one. Enshrined in our Constitution, in the sustainable development goals to which we are signatory. This week we will hear lofty promises as the two major political outfits unveil their manifestos. Of what use will all these beautiful promises be if we cannot feed ourselves? In my humble opinion, those manifestos should only have one thing written in bold and capital letters &ndash; FOOD. ALSO READ: Kidero headache over NASA rivals Yes, that is how basic our needs have become. A hungry man is an angry man, goes the saying, as shown in the viral video we&rsquo;ve been talking about- that is not just an old clich&eacute;. Kenyans are angry and it is largely because they are hungry. &nbsp;Anyone who ignores that will do so at his or her own peril. @YvonneOkwara