NAIROBI, KENYA: Phone maker Oppo has announced plans to replicate its global business model in Kenya by opening standalone retail shops. This follows successful launch of the Oppo F3 smartphone in Kenya recently. It has also signed patnerships with online retailers such as Jumia According to IDC, a premier global market intelligence firm, OPPO shipped 18.9 million units in 2017 opening quarter and had an 18.2 per cent global market share, up from 15.3 per cent a year earlier. OPPO&rsquo;s growth in Q1 was stronger outside its main center with nearly a quarter of shipments from international markets. Speaking on the investments in Kenya, OPPO Kenya CEO Mr. Andrew Peng said the Kenyan market will strategically be among the most important African markets foreseeable in driving its camera-phone revolution. &ldquo;Kenya has proved to be one of our African strongholds, having a population that finds the selfie feature impressive which is a success niche for OPPO. We are looking forward to satisfy the audience by introducing products that will inspire and excite,&rdquo; said Mr. Peng. ALSO READ: OPPO announces partnership with Jumia Mr. Peng said OPPO is now confident that these partnerships will increase sales of its products and provide a secure and convenient way for consumers to shop online and offline. &#39;&#39;The Kenyan mobile phone market offers a favorable competitive landscape. We believe that these partnerships will offer our users a shopping experience of our products at the most competitive prices,&rsquo;&rsquo; Mr. Peng said. Mr. Peng said OPPO Kenya is massively contributing to the growth of the country in employment. &ldquo;Part of our investment in Kenya is a dedicated indigenous human resource in marketing, R&amp;D, customer service, brand management and internet operations that makes up for our 15,000 strong global employee ecosystem,&rdquo; said Mr. Peng.&nbsp; OPPO Kenya launched the OPPO F3 a month ago and is gearing up for launch of several OPPO phones in the market within the year. The top tier mid-range Smartphone has a dual selfie camera feature and currently retails at Sh.32, 990. OPPO is a camera phone brand enjoyed by young people around the world. ALSO READ: OPPO F3 phone hits Kenyan market For the last 10 years, OPPO has been focusing on manufacturing camera phones, while innovating mobile photography technology breakthroughs. OPPO started the era of selfie beautification, and was the first brand to launch smartphones with 5MP and 16MP front cameras. OPPO was also the first brand to introduce the motorized rotating camera, the Ultra HD feature and the 5x Dual Camera Zoom technology. OPPO&#39;s Selfie Expert F-series launched in 2016 drove a selfie trend in the Smartphone industry.