President Uhuru Kenyatta addresses residents at Kitale showground. (Photo: Kevin Tunoi, standard) President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto Thursday unveiled a bag of goodies for Trans Nzoia on the first day of their North Rift tour. Uhuru issued 6,000 title deeds to residents and announced that another 120,000 would be issued within the next six weeks. The Jubilee leaders rallied residents behind a six-piece-vote pattern for Jubilee candidates, saying those defeated in the primaries would be accommodated in Government. Dozen rallies The Jubilee leaders held dozens of rallies and stopovers in the region and accused the Opposition of preaching politics of hatred at the expense of millions of lives of Kenyans. ALSO READ: Uhuru and Ruto fly into storm in Uasin Gishu as ethnic tensions simmer Uhuru announced that beneficiaries of the title deeds would not be charged any stamp duty as the Government had waived the more than Sh1.2 billion they would have been charged. &quot;We want to make sure that every Kenyan has a title for the land he or she owns,&quot; said the President. He said the Government had reduced the price of fertiliser from Sh1,500 from Sh1,200 and subsidised seed to Sh120 in readiness for the next planting season. The President also toured a semen centre which the Government established at the Agricultural Development Centre (ADC) at a cost of Sh1 billion to boost dairy farming in the area. Here Uhuru announced his administration would release Sh200 million to pay the salary arrears of 25,000 employees of ADC farms. The arrears have accumulated since the year 2000 when the ADC farms experienced financial challenges. Uhuru and Ruto braced the rains as they sold the Jubilee manifesto to ecstatic residents chanting &#39;tano tena&#39; (Five more years) who had lined up in the streets. Ruto implored residents to re-elect Jubilee saying they should not be left behind as the party was destined to form the next government. ALSO READ: Uhuru and his deputy pitch camp to court Luhya votes &quot;In 2013 you abandoned us, but this time around we shall not leave you behind because we want you to walk together with us in this journey,&quot; said Ruto. [email&#160;protected]