I was a small boy when pluralism began in Kenya. My father used to tell me about Ford&ndash;Kenya and Ford-Asili parties, after they broke away from the original FORD shortly before the 1992 General Election. Newspapers were a preserve of a few people in our area. I would wait for my father who used to work in Nairobi to come to our Soysambu home with the Finance newspaper and other old papers. He religiously visited our rural home at least once a month and told me many things about multi-party politics. I think he was, and still is, a good analyst. I was excited to see photos of Kenneth Matiba and Martin Shikuku; I was excited to view portraits of Jaramogi Oginga Odinga, youthful James Orengo and Raila Odinga. It was fantastic to view pictures of J J Kamotho and Paul Muite. Kamotho loved the Jogoo Party to no end. Gitobu Imanyara would roar for Ford-Kenya while Martin Shikuku would convince anybody that Ford&ndash;Asili was the most precious party. Parties should thrive on implementable ideologies. Organisation ALSO READ: Registrar of Political Parties says Wavinya belongs to Wiper &nbsp;It is the sole duty of political parties to popularise and market their policies. Parties should be durable; not only active when collecting nomination fees from aspirants ahead of elections. I am looking forward to that day in Kenya when parties will be disassociated with individuals. Party members should not worry that challenging the leadership could lead to suspension or expulsion. That is why party primaries in Kenya have chaotic nature. Investing in parties goes beyond the payment of membership fees and printing posters. It is not the equivalent of submitting a list of members to the registrar of political parties. Management of parties should be a well-thought-out process besides getting priorities right. For example, parties must foresee the danger of printing more T- shirts than ballot papers when organising primaries. ALSO READ: Presidential vote case:State and NASA draw the line Party leaders should be the engines of refined ideas that will add value to the loyalty of members. The secretary generals should be the oasis of fruitful strategies for the party. The main aim of any political party in the world is to win and rule forever if it can able to marshal the support of the citizens. For example, in Kenya, NASA and Jubilee are leading the pack on who will govern Kenyan&#39;s in the next five years. The elections coordinators of NASA should make sure that voter mobilisation is high and deny Uhuru Kenyatta 25 per cent in areas perceived to be NASA. Securing the backyard It is equally important for Jubilee to lock their areas and ensure that Raila Odinga does not make inroads in those areas. The coordinators must be useful for the parties&#39; statistics. However, election coordinators are keen on ensuring that people turn out in large numbers in rallies but are not aware that crowds do not necessarily translate into votes. How are parties grooming youths to take over the mandate of the current officials when they retire? How many parties know that they can partner with foreign bodies that are thirsty in impacting the youth with political and democracy knowledge? Are party&#39;s officials aware of those vacancies? If in the affirmative, then very few indeed. ALSO READ: We won't conduct another nomination in Siaya, says ODM Deriving lessons Kenya&#39;s political parties must learn from Tanzania how to build sturdy foundations of political parties from grass roots. The ruling Chama cha Mapinduzi has distinct structures that have made it stand tall all the time despite serious competition from its main rival; Chama cha Maendeleo na Demokrasia CHADEMA. The stability of the party is not pegged on individuals. That is why Edward Lowasa, who was the most popular presidential candidate, was not given the ticket in 2015. He had integrity issues. January Makamba, who is now a minister in President Magufuli&#39;s government, was equally a strong contender but delegates put their bet on Magufuli who was not mentioned anywhere in CCM primaries. While CCM fought hard to maintain the presidential seat within its wings, the leaving of Lowasa did not kill its spirit going for victory. Principles America has also delinked parties from individuals and members have the final say on who should lead the party. They hate the idea of clinging to positions even when the electorate think otherwise. ALSO READ: Why Jamleck Kamau dropped his bid for Murang&rsquo;a top seat That explains why John Kerry, the democratic presidential candidate in US in 2004, has not vied again for Presidency since losing to George Bush Junior. Equally, when Senator John McCain of the Republican Party lost to Barack Obama, as well as Mitt Romney, none of them has tried to run for the presidency again. Hilary Clinton might also put an end to her appetite for ruling America after Trump defeated her. That is the culture of political parties; party interests supersede those of the individual. &nbsp;Paul Nabiswa is the Head of Swahili, KTN