A fourteen year old girl from Machakos County has given birth to a baby boy after she conceived following alleged repeated defilement by her father. The girl&#39;s sibling aged five years, has also been taken to hospital for reconstructive surgery following repeated defilement by the man they called dad. The two girls found themselves at the mercy of their father after their mother was chased away from home following persistent domestic fights. For about two years now, the man has been sexually preying on her underage daughter in a wicked case of the most glaring act of incest. According to Machakos Sub County Children&#39;s officer, Emily Kimanzi, the two minors were rescued early this year from their home in Machakos Town constituency and taken to children rescue centers in Nairobi and Limuru respectively. Last week, The Standard visited a popular children&#39;s home in Nairobi&#39;s Runda estate where the elder girl had been receiving pre-natal care before she suddenly experienced labor pains and was rushed to the hospital where she delivered a baby boy. ALSO READ: Painful death for girl defiled by her father In an interview with The Standard just few hours before she experienced labor pains, the girl narrated how her father forcefully raped her and threatened her with death should she disclose the matter to anybody. &quot;He forced me to be sleeping with him and told me he would kill me if I report him to anybody,&quot; she said adding that her father stopped defiling her when he discovered she had conceived and was around three months pregnant. At that point, the girl disclosed, her father turned to the five year old young girl and continued defiling her. But the girl&#39;s biggest worry is how she and her sibling will deal with challenges of life that are staring at both of them. &quot;Our lives have been completely destroyed. We don&#39;t know where to go and how we will continue with our education. We wish our parents would re-unite and bring us up with love just like other children out there,&quot; she said while crying. According to Ms Kimanzi, the two minors had been living with their father after their mother ran away from their home in 2015. &quot;In most of these cases where children are abused, it is common to find that the mother figure is missing and that is why we are calling on the society to be extra vigilant to identify and report such matters to the authorities,&quot; she said. At the rescue centers, Ms Kimanzi said the children had been taken through counseling sessions as well as medical check-ups in a bid to restore both their physical and emotional health. She revealed the said man had been arrested and is currently in police custody awaiting formal charges when investigations are completed. &quot;The matter is currently with the police who have arrested the suspect and we expect the case to proceed in court once social workers and legal officers compile all relevant information to prosecute the case,&quot; she said. ALSO READ: Shabaab men turn Kenyan schoolgirls into sex slaves