A boda boda operator in Kisii has stabbed to death his cousin whom they are believed to have sired a child, and then turned the knife on himself. The lady identified as Christine Nyananga was stabbed several times in the chest. Neighbours said Geoffrey Aroni got to the lady&#39;s house at Botori village in Kisii central and locked the door behind him after parking his motorbike outside the residential single units. Her immediate neighbours said&nbsp;the man arrived as the lady was cleaning the house and immediately pounced on her with kicks before stabbing her. &ldquo;The lady moved into the house a few days ago. They have been living together elsewhere and the man has been here less than twice,&rdquo; says John Mokua, a neighbour. Mokua said the man locked the door forcing the lady to start screaming. &quot;She didn&#39;t scream for long before she fell into the floor. The man stabbed himself as we helplessly watched from the window,&quot; he says. ALSO READ: Matatu burnt after hitting, killing a cyclist in Nairobi Community policing members who arrived at the scene to rescue the lady had difficult moments breaking the steel door. By the time they broke the door, both the lady and man had passed on. A cousin to the deceased, Benard Obaigwa, said that the family has been against the relationship despite the fact that they have a seven-year-old daughter. &quot;Family members agreed that they end the relationship. At some point the lady was moved to Nairobi only to return to Kisii where they moved in as wife and husband,&quot; says Obaigwa. Boda boda operators in Kisii town said Aroni had been complaining abour the lady after he got word that she was having an affair with a University lecturer in the town. Kisii OCPD Francis Nguli said the lady is aged 24 years. &quot;The lady was stabbed three times on her chest and throat. The man stabbed himself on the stomach and throat,&quot; says Mr Nguli. ALSO READ: Boda bodas: Greatest threat to pedestrians He said the man is aged 28 years. The bodies of the deceased were taken to Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital mortuary. This is the second&nbsp;case in Kisii in a span of two weeks involving a boda boda operator. Two weeks ago another boda boda operator killed his lover who was a second year student at Kisii University.