Gubernatorial aspirant Chirau Ali&nbsp;Mwakwere&nbsp;has threatened to release a dossier in the coming days on who sanctioned exploitative mining contracts and land injustices in the county. Speaking shortly after being cleared by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to run on a Wiper Democratic Movement ticket on Thursday,&nbsp;Mwakwere said the time has come for him to reveal those behind the county&#39;s land injustices, and exploitation of the region&#39;s mineral resources. To shut up Referring to recent remarks by President Uhuru Kenyatta, his deputy William Ruto and Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya, who asked him to shut up or else they open his past file over signing of mineral contracts, the aspirant said he will be the first one to make revelations. &quot;The President was expressing his views but&nbsp;Mwakwere&nbsp;is a clean man, everyone knows that. If anyone has evidence they should put that evidence on the table. During my campaigns, I am going to reveal those who did so and are now hiding. I will expose them,&quot; he warned. He added that he was the minister for Mining when Cortec and Base Titanium companies had already been given the go-ahead and that the extension of Base Titanium&#39;s investment was done last year when he was the High Commissioner to Tanzania. ALSO READ: Stage set for battle royale as county chiefs cleared Mwakwere&nbsp;argued that all governments except Mwai Kibaki&#39;s have sidelined Coastal region. &quot;And when we talk about it they don&#39;t want us to mention anything about land, that is crazy... people are suffering... coastal people are suffering. No one will stop us from discussing issues of mining, land and education,&quot; he said. Titanic battle ahead Perhaps a pointer to the titanic battle ahead, Mvurya and&nbsp;Mwakwere, who met at the IEBC offices, snubbed each other without even exchanging greetings. Mwakwere, who defected to the Opposition in February, has made alleged land distribution and exploitation of local mineral wealth the subject of his campaign against governor Mvurya. Mvurya who is vying on a Jubilee ticket accused&nbsp;Mwakwere&nbsp;of being behind the contracts. He made the claims after presenting his nomination papers to IEBC. Others cleared included Dr Issah Chipera (ODM) and Kwale County speaker Sammy Ruwa (independent). ALSO READ: IEBC staff robbed at election centre in Kariobangi