Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero has ordered a full audit of Weston Hotel staff following a cholera outbreak last week. Dr Kidero warned that action would be taken against the hotel if it was found to have breached public health regulations and put lives in danger. Kidero directed County Health Executive Benard Muia to initiate a probe into the cholera outbreak and specifically look into the hotel staff handling food during the science conference at the hotel last week. &quot;Weston Hotel takes full responsibility and accountability for the cholera outbreak. That is why we are re-examining all the workers of Weston hotel and the necessary penalties will be meted out if found that they did not comply with public health requirements,&quot; said Kidero. PREPARED ELSEWHERE He rejected claims that food for the event had been prepared elsewhere and said both Weston Hotel and the alleged source of the infected food should be investigated immediately. &quot;It is a public health requirement that all workers are subjected to a medical examination and get the necessary vaccinations twice a year, and we will be looking into the staff files to see if this was followed,&quot; said the governor. In an earlier statement from the hotel, General Manager Michael Nzile said the Ministry of Health&#39;s Department of Disease Surveillance and the National Public Health Laboratories had conducted preliminary investigations regarding the reported cholera outbreak during the Health Scientific Conference. &quot;Jointly with partners involved, we ensured that the situation was contained and followed procedures as guided by the Ministry of Health as we await their report on possible causes. We wish all the affected delegates a quick recovery,&quot; said Mr Nzile. Mr Nzile assured all guests that the hotel remained diligent in its operations and confirmed that staff and food handlers were certified and continued to operate within the HACCP principles. The HACCP is a systematic approach to the identification, evaluation and control of food safety hazards based on seven principles. Speaking at a church event in Kawangware, Nairobi, the governor observed that it was unfortunate for such a reputable establishment to have been linked to the disease, adding that stringent measures needed to be taken to stop a repeat. RANKED THIRD He said Kenya had been ranked third globally in desirability of places to visit and such incidents were unfortunate. &quot;The county takes the issue of health and safety very seriously. Our reputation as a travel destination and conference destination is dependent on the safety and health of our visitors and workers as well as the food they serve,&quot; he said. Ten people were hospitalised after eating food at the hotel last Thursday. The 10, including two doctors, were attending an international science conference when they were taken ill. The incident occurred at a time when healthcare in the city has been crippled by a nurses&#39; strike as doctors joined them demanding salary arrears. The county health department has also re-activated six surveillance centres in the city to check a cholera outbreak. &nbsp;