President Uhuru Kenyatta has hit out at the Opposition, accusing it of spreading propaganda over the projects he has undertaken. Uhuru, who spoke during campaigns in Bungoma County, said NASA was fond of using lies to discredit the work his administration has done. He said Kenyans were only interested in service delivery and development projects and not empty rhetoric propagated b the Opposition. &quot;We need to give our people leadership that delivers and not engage in propaganda. Our rivals always try to discredit what we have done through propaganda. We are not interested in these,&quot; he said. President Kenyatta further stated that NASA had not explained to Kenyans, in their manifesto, what they would do in every sector after elections. &quot;I have never heard them explaining what they will do for Kenyans in every sector. What they always do is criticise what we have done for the past four years,&quot; he said. ALSO READ: NASA membership :ANC wants monopoly of Vihiga The President spoke as the NASA team on Saturday in its social media highlighted the key sectors of the economy it will tackle if it comes to power. Uhuru further hit out at the Opposition leaders led by presidential candidate Raila Odinga for not being sure of a win in the elections prompting them to focus on other elective seats. He singled out Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang&#39;ula for coming back to defend his seat, saying he was just trying to stay in politics. &quot;If they are sure of a win, why is Mr Wetang&#39;ula coming back to defend his seat? They are all about seats and positions, that is why they are scared and not sure of a win. Such leaders are not to be trusted,&quot; he said. Law and order The President further called for peaceful campaigns ahead of the August 8 elections and asked all politicians involved in campaigns to ensure they maintain law and order. The President said he was in the county to ask the electorate to support his re-election bid as he was not out to sideline any county in the country. ALSO READ: The enemy within: Why &lsquo;friendly fire&rsquo; could be NASA&rsquo;s Achilles heel &quot;As we approach elections, it is important that every leader preaches peace and respects the opinion of others so that Kenya moves forward in its development journey,&quot; he said. He expressed optimism of trouncing his rivals in the next elections in August. Uhuru started his tour of Bungoma at Naitiri Catholic Church, where he said his government would release Sh5 million to refurbish Naitiri Boys High School that was razed by a fire two weeks ago. He later had stopovers in Naitiri, Kamukuywa and Misikhu markets. He, however, skipped Kimilili town and headed to Posta Grounds in Bungoma town. There was no explanation given for the sudden change of programme. After addressing locals at Posta Grounds, he headed to Mayanja, Chwele and then Kimilili. Uhuru said the programme to pay the integrated internally displaced persons would be extended to Bungoma and Busia counties. ALSO READ: Musila, Nyenze praise Jubilee, asks voters to elect worthy leaders Deputy President William Ruto echoed Uhuru&#39;s sentiments, urging Kenyans to reject leaders busy advocating for divisive politics based on ethnicity. Ruto said Kenya needed to be united for any meaningful development to be achieved. &quot;We need each other in this country. We need to walk together and any person who preaches divisive politics will not help in our development agenda,&quot; he said. He challenged the Opposition to show any projects in the country that they had implemented for the people in the years they were in top Government positions. And the National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale hit out at the International Criminal Court (ICC) over claims that the court plans to revive Kenyan cases that collapsed. Mr Duale said the statements by ICC senior trial lawyer Anton Steynberg showed the court was no longer about justice but had a hidden agenda.