The world most powerful countries&#39; have fledged to in-cooperate Africa at their highest level of the deliberation&#39;s organ- the G-7. At the end of the 43rd Summit, where President Uhuru Kenyatta made history as the first Kenyan sitting Head of State to address the gathering, Taormina beach town, in Sicily City, the leaders agreed that Africa has a stake in addressing global matters. In their 37-point resolutions, Africa featured as a major stakeholder in resolving some of the challenges facing the globe. In a joint communiqu&eacute; released on Saturday by the Group Seven-G7, after a morning session with the Africa outreach group resolved that the continent&#39;s security, stability and sustainable development are high priorities for them. &quot;Our goal is indeed to strengthen cooperation and dialogue with African countries and regional organizations to develop African capacity in order to better prevent, respond to and manage crisis and conflicts,&quot; read the resolutions. They welcomed the forthcoming launch by the European Union (EU) of the External Investment Plan (EIP), which they noted is an important tool to boost investment in the continent. ALSO READ: Queries as Uhuru, Ruto offices get Sh1.3 billion additional budget And also envisaged that the G20 Partnership Initiative with Africa and the investment pledge made at the Tokyo International Conference for African Development (TICADVI) held in Nairobi last year will further enhance relations. Germany Chancellor Angela Markel already extended an official invite to President Kenyatta to attend the G20 Presidency 2017 meeting to be held in Hamburg, Germany in July on shaping an interconnected world as a representative of the African cause. &quot;This is also in line with the relevant goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development,&quot; read the resolutions. The leaders drawn from the USA, Britain, Italy, Japan, Canada, Germany and France, affirmed that a stable Africa means a stable environment for investment. &quot;It is also important to continue our efforts to expand reliable access to energy in Africa. Unlocking Africa&#39;s potential requires empowering millions of people through innovation, education, promoting gender equality and human capital development,&quot; reads the statement. It continues, &quot;Decent employment better health services, and food security will also contribute to building a more resilient society in a rapidly changing world.&quot; The &#39;big seven&#39; indicated that their aim is to work in partnership with the African continent, supporting the African Union Agenda 2063, in order to provide the young generation in particular with adequate skills, quality infrastructures, financial resources, and access to a sustainable, prosperous and safe future. ALSO READ: Unga uproar in counties as shortage continues to bite