President Uhuru Kenyatta has expressed confidence that Western Kenya will vote overwhelmingly for Jubilee in the August 8 elections. Speaking at Malinya grounds in Ikolomani, Kakamega County on Saturday, the President admitted that failure to mount major campaigns in Western in 2013 cost him and his deputy William Ruto votes in the region. &ldquo;It is up to you to choose whether to back Jubilee or not but we came here to ask for your votes which is our democratic right. I believe you have seen what we have been able to do in the last four years and if you walk with us, we promise to do more development projects to uplift all Kenyans&rsquo; lives,&rdquo; he said. President Kenyatta, who was accompanied by Deputy President William Ruto, also addressed a rally at Bukhungu Stadium in Kakamega town, where he announced that the Government will allocate Sh500 million to pay sugarcane farmers in Mumias. Seeds of discord He pointed out that opposition leaders have been lying to farmers and yet it is the Jubilee Government that came out to revive the Mumias Sugar Company by injecting Sh3.1 billion. ALSO READ: Despite the ICC's absence, we must not fuel ethnicity &ldquo;Our opponents have been saying that we don&rsquo;t care about the interests of sugarcane farmers, yet they are the ones who fleeced the factory,&rdquo; said the President. He censured Kakamega Senator Bonny Khalwale for sowing seeds of discord among peace-loving Kakamega residents, saying what is required of leaders is to sell their policies to the electorate and not to insult their political opponents. &ldquo;You have leaders who come here pretending to be heroes but what they do is insult others instead of selling their policies to the voters,&rdquo; said Kenyatta. The President said under Jubilee administration, Kenya has made major strides in development in the shortest period of four years compared to what was achieved in the past 50 years. &ldquo;Here in Kakamega County we have done more than three times of what was achieved by the previous administrations in 50 years,&rdquo; said Kenyatta. He further said the government is constructing over 250km of roads in Kakamega apart from the installation of medical equipment worth over Sh800 million in two hospitals under the Managed Equipment Services. &ldquo;In the whole country we have provided free maternity to all women who deliver in public hospitals and through the Inua Jamii cash transfer programme we have catered for over 1.5 million elderly people, helping them to lead a dignified life,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: DP Ruto seems to ignore crucial principles in political warfare He pledged to foster the National Youth Service empowerment programme targeting the youths in Kakamega County saying the initiative had increased the cash flow in the area and given beneficiaries a source of livelihood. Deputy President Ruto told off NASA leaders for saying they only have a problem with him and not President Uhuru Kenyatta. He asked the opposition to abandon the August polls in favour of President Kenyatta if indeed they have no problem with him. Abandon the race &ldquo;If our friends in the Opposition have no problem with President Kenyatta, then they should abandon the race and support him (Kenyatta) because I am not a candidate for 2017 so that they face me at the ballot in 2022,&rdquo; said the Deputy President. He said opposition leaders were confused because they have no agenda for Kenyans after spending four years searching for their flag bearer. At the Bukhungu rally, Western leaders affirmed their support for the President, his deputy and the Jubilee Party &ndash; sending a clear message that the political terrain has shifted in favour of Jubilee. &ldquo;People of Western have embraced Jubilee because it has addressed challenges facing them including revival of Mumias sugar factory,&rdquo; said Mumias East MP Ben Washiali. ALSO READ: DP Ruto seems to ignore crucial principles in political warfare He urged Western residents to re-elect the President in the August 8 polls. Navakholo MP Emmanuel Wangwe had earlier asked Jubilee to step up hunt for votes in the perceived opposition stronghold. Earlier, President Kenyatta addressed residents at Sigalagala, Khayega, Shinyalu and Murhanda. [email&#160;protected]