The National Super Alliance (NASA) leaders have said that they only have a problem with Deputy President William Ruto and not President Uhuru Kenyatta. Speaking Friday during campaigns in Mt Kenya, the NASA leaders said that Deputy President William Ruto is the reason Jubilee government should be sent packing. The leaders described Ruto &ldquo;as a dangerous person to lead the country.&rdquo; Addressing residents at Kilimo Talii hotel in Tharaka Nithi County at the start of the two-day tour of the region, the NASA co-principals appealed to the voters to send Jubilee leaders home for failing to deliver. &ldquo;Kenyatta is seeking a second term after which the Constitution won&rsquo;t allow him to vie. Now we want you to think of Ruto being the president after Kenyatta. So to block Ruto, we must ensure they fall with Kenyatta,&rdquo; Kalonzo Musyoka said. He said it is only NASA that can unite Kenyans and end nepotism, corruption and poverty. ALSO READ: DP Ruto seems to ignore crucial principles in political warfare &ldquo;Raila has been rigged out twice in the elections. This time Tharaka Nithi, you must say that you will remain and guard Raila&rsquo;s votes. It will be the first time in five years that you will see transformation,&rdquo; Kalonzo added. NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga maintained that the Jubilee administration is riding on the glory of the coalition Government in which he was the Prime Minister. Empty promises &ldquo;The projects that you see Jubilee boasting about are the ones we initiated with President Mwai Kibaki. The roads in this region were constructed while l was the minister. What our opponents are saying are promises but with no actions,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;All Kenyans are suffering despite their tribe. When the economy is bad, everyone is affected. If the price of unga has increased in Mandera, the same is experienced in Kakamega and all parts of the country. The time has come for Kenyans to join hands to deliver the country from poverty,&rdquo; Raila said. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula faulted Jubilee for using the International Criminal Court (ICC) propaganda to win support. He said all the NASA principals voted against the ICC issue in Parliament and Ruto, who was behind the propaganda, insisted the cases should be taken to The Hague. ALSO READ: Kalonzo must ensure a divided Wiper party doesn't fell NASA &ldquo;We have no intentions of reviving the cases and Kenyans are aware this is mere propaganda,&rdquo; he said. Musalia Mudavadi said the NASA government will increase county allocation funds from the constitutional 15 per cent to 45 per cent as they fully support devolution. Prof Isaiah Kindiki, the NASA campaigns coordinator in the region said Tharaka Nithi County has been given empty promises about development projects.