Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) politicians in Busia County have clashed over calls for the six-piece voting pattern in the August 8 elections. Senator Amos Wako has urged locals not to embrace six-piece voting as Woman Representative Florence Mutua and Budalang&#39;i parliamentary aspirant Raphael Wanjala appealed to residents to vote for all ODM candidates. Ms Mutua and Mr Wanjala said they would not relent in pushing for six-piece voting in the county, noting that other parties under the National Super Alliance (NASA) were free to rally their supporters to vote for their candidates. After being cleared by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC), Mr Wako said he would concentrate on his re-election bid. INDEPENDENT CANDIDATES &quot;I do not support the idea that independent candidates should not be voted for and even Raila himself knows and is even changing his position,&quot; he added. ALSO READ: ODM leaders clash over six-piece voting But Mutua said it would be ironical for the NASA presidential candidate to win in the August elections and have only a few elected MPs and MCAs. &quot;We are supporting all candidates under ODM. Although democracy dictates that you can vote for the leader you like, we want our candidates to win,&quot; she said. Wanjala said Wako&#39;s stance contravened party leader Raila Odinga&#39;s quest to ensure that ODM wins more seats in Busia. SERVE DILIGENTLY &quot;When you are in a party, you should serve it diligently. There is no way one can decide to campaign for oneself alone and leave out other aspirants seeking other positions within the same party,&quot; he said. The two are supporting Governor Sospeter Ojaamong&#39;s re-election while&nbsp;Wako is behind Funyula MP Paul Otuoma, who is seeking to unseat the incumbent. Mr Otuoma on Monday sent a congratulatory message to Wako for being cleared to defend his seat. ALSO READ: Mutua cleared, names Francis Maliti as running mate The message was read by the county assembly&#39;s Leader of Majority Josephat Wandera during a rally held at Busia Bus Park. Mr Wandera, who is in ODM, vowed to campaign for Otuoma.&nbsp; &nbsp;