BUNGOMA, KENYA: Bungoma Governor Ken Lusaka and one of his rivals, Wycliffe Wangamati are set to appear before the Interim and Independent Electoral Commission (IEBC) this afternoon to respond to &quot;alleged breach of the Electoral Code of Conduct.&quot; IEBC Chairperson Wafula Chebukati says the two were summoned following a bitter clash that was occasioned in Bungoma town on June 2, leading to the death of one. According to documents in our possession, Mr Lusaka has been listed as a complainant while Mr Wangamati is the respondent. On the fateful day, the Bungoma County boss says his convoy started smoothly from his rural in Kamukuywa through Kimilili, Misikhu and Webuye without any hiccup. &quot;But when we reached Sikata Junction, just before Kanduyi, at about 10 in the morning, I received a call from my political adviser that Mr Wangamati was yet to arrive at the IEBC offices to present his papers,&quot; states Mr Lusaka in his complaint, adding: &quot;We had to buy time, waiting for the Ford Kenya gubernatorial candidate to finish with the IEBC.&quot; Just after clearing with the IEBC, Mr Lusaka says his convoy went to town, before holding a rally that was to take place at the Posta Grounds. But when &quot;we reached the corner at Cooperative Bank just opposite Mt Elgon Hardware on Moi Avenue, several persons confronted my team, chanting: &quot;Jubilee Tawe&rdquo; &ldquo;Wangamati Juu&quot;. ALSO READ: Five want IEBC to bar Ken Lusaka from poll &quot;They immediately threw a swarm of bees onto us; and as we drove past the entrance to the Bungoma Bus Stage, a group of persons clad in Ford Kenya tops and armed with crude weapons such as pangas and rungus began hurling stones at us,&quot; observes the Governor. He says his vehicles and that of his deputy were hit with several stones, breaking their windscreens and denting their body work and side paneling. &quot;My driver managed to drive past the rowdy youths who continued pelting our vehicles with stones as we drove out of town to Posta Grounds where I addressed a rally, vehemently condemning the violence,&quot; narrates the governor on his complaint to the IEBC. In the June 2 complaint, the County Boss lays the blame on his rival, Mr Wangamati and his Ford-Kenya brigade &quot;for prompting his supporters to ambush and attack my convoy, subjecting me and my supporters to unnecessary violence and aggression.&quot; But on his side, Mr Wangamati, ironically in a pre-dated letter of May 7, says that it is the Jubilee-leaning supporters who attacked them on June 2, destroying various vehicles and property &quot;belonging to members of Ford Kenya&quot;. &quot;These systematic attacks are orchestrated and well-planned by the members of Jubilee Party and police seem to be helpless to control them,&quot; says Mr Wangamati.