An Administration Police (AP) officer has shot dead two of his colleagues and injured another. The incident occured at Kaisela Rapid Deployment Unit (RDU) camp in Baringo South. County AP commandant Robinson Ndiwa said Gabriel Kung&rsquo;u Njoroge and Francis Ekono died on the spot while Daniel Kyalo was nursing injuries at Nairobi Women&rsquo;s Hospital, Nakuru branch. Mr Kyalo had been rushed to Marigat Hospital before he was later referred to the Nakuru hospital for further examination and treatment. Turned away The rogue officer, Constable Jackson Mwangi, is alleged to have visited the officers who were relaxing inside a tented camp at around 9pm after returning from an operation. ALSO READ: Queries over police cars' safety After being turned away, Mr Mwangi is said to have cocked his gun, shot dead one officer and begun spraying bullets inside the tent. During the random shooting, he shot the second officer and injured Kyalo. &ldquo;The two officers were relaxing in their tents when the rogue officer visited them, cocked his gun and began firing bullets at them. Two died on the spot and one sustained injuries,&rdquo; said Mr Ndiwa. Mwangi is said to have escaped with his gun from the camp immediately after the incident. Officers from other tents within the camp responded to gun sounds but the suspect managed to escape and has since gone into missing. The AP commandant said investigations were underway to establish what might have caused the officer to turn against his colleagues. He condemned the incident and said the officer involved was being sought to face action. The shooting was the first incident to be reported since the start of an operation in March to contain the bandits. &ldquo;We are seeking to arrest the officer who disappeared and recover the fire arm,&rdquo; said the commandant. The bodies of the two officers were airlifted to Nairobi for post-mortem. Kasiele Camp is one of the police camps established in Baringo following increased banditry attacks, which have soared over the past two years. In April, President Uhuru Kenyatta deployed the military in a bid to flush out bandits, who have been causing havoc in the region.