National Super Alliance (NASA) presidential candidate Raila Odinga has blamed the Jubilee government for broken promises and asked voters to bank on his manifesto to transform the country. A day after NASA launched its manifesto, Raila yesterday led campaigns in Narok where he and President Uhuru Kenyatta split the presidential vote in 2013. The Opposition hopes to flip the region into its corner in the August elections. Yesterday, Raila, who garnered 118,623 votes (50 per cent) against Uhuru&#39;s 109,413 (46 per cent) in 2013, promised local residents that his administration would resolve land grievances and restore a compensation scheme to cushion pastoralists during times of drought. Raila, his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka, co-principals Musalia Mudavadi, Moses Wetang&#39;ula and Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto criticised Jubilee for failing to fulfil its 2013 pledges. &quot;Jubilee deceived Kenyans in 2013. They promised to give all Standard One pupils laptops within 100 days, they promised to lower the cost of living, provide jobs but what we are seeing now is high cost of living. Sugar, unga, bus fare have hit the ceiling,&quot; Raila told the rally at Naroosura in Narok South. Private investments ALSO READ: NASA's big plans for Kenya after poll Raila also told the Jubilee government to stop seeking political capital from private investments, citing plans to set up a multi-billion-shilling brewery in Kisumu which President Uhuru Kenyatta announced yesterday at State House in Nairobi. The ODM leader said the Jubilee government had failed to construct over 10,000km of tarmac roads. The NASA team also accused Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery of using his position to intimidate vocal Maasai leaders. &quot;Nkaissery was one of us and he is a Maasai but I was taken aback when his officers shot and killed herders who were looking for pasture in ranches owing to the biting drought. That is&nbsp; inhumanity of the highest order,&quot; said Raila. The NASA leaders also accused the Jubilee administration of failing to implement the Truth Justice and Reconciliation Commission (TJRC) report that sought to address historical injustices meted to the communities. &quot;Recently, Raila talked about land injustices in Kajiado and we fully support it. Last year during the burial of Maasai patriarch William ole Ntimama, Leader of Majority Aden Duale promised to table the TJRC report but he lied,&quot; said Musyoka. Mudavadi said NASA had a special plan for pastoralists, which would ensure that they develop water pans, dams, hay, as well as ensure irrigation projects are launched to eradicate poverty. ALSO READ: Luo elders warn Raila campaign team to tread carefully