The country&#39;s fourth largest international airport will be completed in two weeks. The Sh2.7 billion Isiolo International Airport, which will also serve seven neighbouring counties, will be operational as soon as it is completed.&nbsp; According to Transport Principal Secretary Paul Maringa, final work on the 1.4km runway is expected to be completed in the next six days. During an inspection tour on Wednesday, Prof Maringa, accompanied by Kenya Airports Authority (KAA) Managing Director Johnny Andersen, said the contractors had done a good job. The initial completion deadline was extended last October. President Uhuru Kenyatta was scheduled to commission the facility earlier in the year but the ceremony was postponed due to delay in completion of the runway pavements, reportedly because of poor drainage. Drainage channels ALSO READ: Court temporarily reinstates Kenya Airports Authority board managing director &quot;We are left with remedial work, especially on the runway to provide effective drainage channels to guarantee that water runoff does not sit on the runway,&quot; said the PS. He added: &quot;The Government has invested heavily in this project and it has reached a level where we feel we are ready to start operations.&quot; Apart from the terminal building, other components of the airport that have been approved are access roads, the administration block, the aircraft parking apron, and the control tower. The PS and KAA said work had been done according to international civil aviation standards. Kenya Airways, JamboJet, Air Kenya, and Fly 540 are said to be keen to start domestic flights. Fly 540 has&nbsp; booked a ticket office at the airport President Kenyatta is expected to commission the project, Maringa said. The timetable for international flights, the official said, would be announced later. &quot;KAA will be able to handle international flights but we expect gradual development from other carriers.The facility will start with domestic flights,&quot; said Mr Andersen. [email&#160;protected]