City residents have expressed mixed views over a bill that seeks to jail rogue and brutal city inspectorate officers (askaris) for life. The Nairobi City County Inspectorate Services Bill states that any &lsquo;askari&rsquo; who subjects a person to cruel or inhumane treatment commits a criminal offence, whose punishment is life imprisonment. &ldquo;It will be unlawful for inspectorate officers to subject any person to torture or other cruel, inhumane or degrading treatment,&rdquo; the Bill reads. Osman Bishar, a boda boda rider operating around Jevanjee Gardens, fully supported the bill, saying it would help curb the menace of inspectorate personnel variously known as askaris or&nbsp; &lsquo;Kanjo&rsquo;. Bishar said he had on several occasions been mistreated by the county officers who asked for bribes to allow them operate in certain areas in the city. Beatings ALSO READ: Beggars have to 'up their game' if they don't want to go home empty-handed &ldquo;I totally agree with the MCAs because Kanjo has taken us through hell. A trader who sells paintings and mirrors across the street almost lost his eye after he was beaten senseless last week by the askaris,&rdquo; said Bishar. Cyprian Otieno, a hawker who sells clothes at the khoja/globe roundabout, also opined that if the strict penalty was imposed on the county askaris, they would act within the confines of the law. Otieno said a trader&rsquo;s biggest nightmare was a &lsquo;Kanjo askari&rsquo;, as they use force if one doesn&rsquo;t give in to their often criminal demands. Citing past cases, he said some of his colleagues had&nbsp; been scarred and others even lost their lives at the hands of the officers. Harsh sentence Shadrack Kinaka, a beautician at the Nairobi Bus Station, said, &ldquo;rogue officers usually harass and torture us because they know they are well connected. Once they know their life is on the line, they become a bit reticent.&rdquo; But a section of the residents felt sentencing askaris to a life imprisonment was inhumane treatment in itself. ALSO READ: Governor&rsquo;s Cup: Jijazie FC books date with Makongeni Youth in Eastern Zone football final Nicholas Kioko, a taxi driver operating outside Simmers club, felt such a sentence would be too harsh. He said the penalty should be proportional to the crime. &ldquo;If it is murder then they should even be hanged, but if it is the normal squabbles, they can be settled in court,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;We have to remember that the officers are our brothers and sisters and should be reasonable when meting out such penalties,&rdquo; he added.