The deaths of 20 Administration Police officers who were killed when their vehicles ran over improvised explosive devices (IEDs) in the Northern Frontier Countiers are a constant reminder of the danger of terrorism that constantly lurks in our midst. The officers paid the ultimate price in the line of duty. They have - in several cases - foiled attacks aimed at civilians. Their bravery and singleness of mind need to be celebrated. We owe it to all the uniformed officers doing their best to make our borders and our neighbourhoods safe. Indeed, these veterans from the KDF serving in Somalia fighting to neutralise the threat of Al Shabaab; to the watchful border patrol units; to the officer on the beat in the streets of Kayole and Eastleigh, all deserve commendation. But the frequent attacks and the high casualties raises certain hard questions. Are the officers well-equipped to counter the threat from the faceless fighter that is the Al Shabaab? Is the intelligence community supplying the police with real-time intelligence? And are the officers in the right frame of mind to fight a threat like terror? What capabilities do they take to the field beyond the usual training of maintaining law and order among civilians? Are they prepared adequately for this sort of enemy? Those questions can only be answered alongside what really undermines the National Police Service. And that is not how many of them die in the line of duty.No, it is conduct unbecoming of the Police Service. Consequently, the police have lost a critical ally; the public. A distrusting public is the Police Service&rsquo;s biggest liability. In truth, the National Police Service is not a paragon of &lsquo;service for all&rsquo; as its motto proclaims. In the corruption perception indices, it has the dubious distinction of topping the charts while the lethargy in its ranks is legendary. ALSO READ: Anti-Terror Police Unit arrest youth en route to Somalia Cases of extra-judicial killings happen too frequently, with few arrests done. So, even as we celebrate the gallant officers, we acknowledge that so much needs to be done to give it the stature it deserves.