Two people were stabbed and seriously injured in retaliatory attacks in Embakasi. Up to 20 houses were burnt in the Wednesday incident that caused tension before police arrived. This displaced about seven families, rendering them homeless. The attackers said they were avenging the killing of one of their colleagues who died in hospital days after being stabbed at the weekend. Police said the victim, identified as John Mwangi, died in hospital following a political disagreement in Mradi area on Sunday. And when reports of his death reached the area, a group was dropped there that barricaded the roads for several minutes. Tribal angle Witnesses said the gang was armed with&nbsp;crude&nbsp;weapons and later started to attack pedestrians and residents while destroying and burning property. The incident took a tribal angle as one gang aligned to a different ethnic group attacked the other in broad daylight before police arrived there. This prompted&nbsp; locals to call newsrooms and complain of the attacks. Those injured are said to have been part of the gang that was attacking locals. It was a pure political intimidation instigated by one of the aspirants to scare resident&#39;s who do not support them away for fear of post election violence,&quot; said Boniface Abuko, a resident whose house was burnt down. Divina Kwamboka and her two children aged five and nine slept out in the cold after their house was destroyed in the fire. ALSO READ: Owner of collapsed building on the run, police tell him to surrender &quot;The kids could not even go to school today (yesterday) since all their books, uniforms and the other school items were burnt in the house,&quot; she said. Security meeting Urine Kwamboka came from work to find her house broken into and electronics taken away. When she confronted one of the gang members, she was told to leave or risk having her house being torched. Francis Mureithi and Baby Owino, who attended a security meeting hosted by chief security officers, pledged to help the residents rebuild the houses and buy basic items for more than 20 families affected by the incident. &quot;This is not the first time we are witnessing such an incident here. More than five other people have died in similar circumstances. We urge the Government to provide an Administration Police camp here,&quot; said Mureithi. He also said he would clear the hospital bill for Mwangi. Four people were injured in the incident as the residents retaliated. Police say they are following reports a politician ferried goons to attack the locals. Seven people were arrested in the chaos. More officers were also deployed to the area to keep peace. Nairobi police boss Japheth Koome said they were investigating the incident with a view to taking action. &nbsp;[email&#160;protected] ALSO READ: Turning the tide of crime among youths