NASA principals Moses Wetangula (left) Musalia Mudavadi (centre) and Raila Odinga addressing the press during the unveiling of the national presidential campaign team at Okoa Keya offices. (Beverlyne Musili, Standard) The National Super Alliance (NASA) has unveiled its presidential candidate Raila Odinga&#39;s campaign team. The 12-member team will be under the leadership of Musalia Mudavadi, who will be leading the National Campaign Committee (NACACO) charged with the responsibility of ensuring NASA delivers votes to propel Raila to the presidency. The team comprises Senators James Orengo (Siaya), Johnstone Muthama (Machakos) and Agnes Zani (Nominated), Governor Hassan Joho (Mombasa), MPs Junet Mohamed (Suna East), Memusi Kanchori (Kajiado Central) and Timothy Bosire (Kitutu Masaba). Others are former Committee of Experts chairman Nzamba Kitonga, former Housing PS Tirop Kosgey, Kipyegon Sang, Cynthia Mutere, Brown Makotsi and Olga Karani. Campaign oversight ALSO READ: NASA speaks on deal that gave Raila one term The Musalia Mudavadi-led team will among other roles be responsible for overall management and oversight of the campaign and will be the ultimate decision-making organ of Raila&#39;s campaign. The team will act as a link between other campaign teams and the candidate, ensuring that both the candidate and the alliance&#39;s Summit are briefed on campaign roll-out, progress and strategies. And to ensure that the alliance&#39;s supporters are kept informed, Mudavadi announced the team would organise weekly briefings. &quot;We will be responsible for mapping issues and institutions relevant to the campaign, including those relating to the political landscape, the electoral process, the campaign platform, and messaging on key political issues,&quot; said Mudavadi. The team will also be responsible for overall leadership in monitoring all areas of the campaign planning and implementation. It will ensure continued support for Raila and identify campaign donors.&nbsp; ALSO READ: NASA leaders call for vigilance to curb elections rigging