Wajir woman representative Fatuma Ibrahim has called for security officers to officer security for women who are contesting for seats in the volatile areas. Speaking after she was cleared to contest for Tarbaj&nbsp; constituency seat on an ODM ticket, Fatuma said that the region was predominantly masculine and women could face insecurity while campaigning especially where they were running against women. &quot;I appeal for peaceful campaigns and in this polls, women should be given security so that we can be able to move freely, we want to have an issue based politics that is devoid of gender prejudice,&quot; said Fatuma. Fatuma is vying for the seat against three male candidates in a seat that is current held by MP Mohamed Elmi who has quit elective seat. Others contesting in the constituency are Jubilee candidate Idris Abdi, Ahmed Barshame of PDR party and Mohamed Sirat. Mrs Fatuma said &quot;Toda is a historic day for me and am now ready to hit the road and campaign in order to secure adequate votes for me to emerge the winner.&quot; ALSO READ: Governors hit the trail amid assault by rivals She called on women and youth to come out in huge numbers and vote to liberate themself from the cultural biases that work against the women. Omar Adan , a youth said that the new constitution which required more women to be given more leadership position was the greatest motivating factor behind women in the region vying for various seats. &quot;The one third gender rule stated in the constitution has made it possible for women to prove their leadership position. The society should get out of the dark and elect more women candidates, &quot;she said. Mzee Abdullahi Kajaja said that though the society has been blinded for long by culture, the society was now appreciating the role that the women are playing in the society. She added that she would emerge the winner considering the positive response she had received from the electorates. &quot;Women are not lesser candidates. Just like men we got what it takes to lead,&quot; she concluded&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; ALSO READ: Presidential aspirant who threatened to commit suicide tells story