The Government Tuesday released Sh358 million to compensate victims of the 2007/08 post-election violence from Kisii County. Releasing the money, President Uhuru Kenyatta said a further Sh470 million would be given out today to victims from Nyamira County. In efforts to woo the Gusii community votes, the Head of State outlined his administration&#39;s achievements in the past four-and-a-half years, saying the Standard Gauge Railway would be extended to Kisumu through Kisii and Nyamira counties. &quot;We have completed phase one of the Standard Gauge Railway from Mombasa to Nairobi. We will extend it to Naivasha and for the first time, instead of passing through Nakuru, the extended railway will pass through Narok, Kisii and then to Kisumu,&quot; said the President. Speaking in Kisii, he, however, failed to mention the fate of thousands of IDPs in Migori, Homa Bay, Kisumu and Siaya who have also been holding street protests over delayed payments. The President launched a scathing attack on&nbsp;NASAleaders, accusing them of fanning hatred across the country. ALSO READ: Reality check as Uhuru drives through poor roads in Kisii He took issue with the Opposition leadership as he exuded confidence in winning the August 8 elections, noting that the race had been made easier by an Opposition that was clueless about what was good for the country. President Kenyatta said he won the 2013 elections despite his ICC challenges, adding that it would be a smooth ride for him this year because of Jubilee&#39;s performance and track record. &quot;The Opposition has no idea what Kenyans want. If they are not inciting Kenyans, they are peddling insults,&quot; said Uhuru. He accused the Opposition leaders of reckless talk and termed its claim that the Government may have had a hand in the murder of Mumias Sugar Company legal officer, Ronald Lubya, because he opposed alleged plans to use the miller in illegal sugar imports, as baseless. The visibly agitated Head of State warned the Opposition leaders against politicising the killing. &quot;The Opposition has turned the death into a political issue and have started going round the country issuing threats. Let them come forward and tell us what they know about the killing,&quot; said Uhuru. NASA&nbsp;presidential candidate Raila Odinga and his co-principals, Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang&#39;ula had claimed that State agents were behind the murder of Mr Lubya because he resisted planned sugar imports from South Sudan using the miller&#39;s name. ALSO READ: NASA speaks on deal that gave Raila one term Speaking in Masimba, Keroka, Keumbu, Jogoo, Nyatieko, Nyakoe, Suneka and Tabaka, President Kenyatta expressed confidence that he would get more votes in Kisii County than he did in 2013. &quot;Last time (2013), we did not walk together but this time round, I believe the people of Kisii are going to support me due to the good work done by my government in this region since we assumed office,&quot; he said. Addressing roadside rallies across the county at the start of his two-day campaign in the region, the President said he wanted to settle the IDP issues once and for all. &quot;This has been a thorny issue among the Gusii community. We promised to deal with the issue and never again should Kenya face such a mess,&quot; he said. Kisii Jubilee leaders led by Senator Chris Obure and Charles Nyachae accompanied the President. &quot;We do not wish to go back to the kind of violence experienced in Kenya during the 2007 general elections,&quot; Uhuru said. The IDPs were demanding Sh200,000 each to buy land just like their counterparts in Central and Rift Valley regions. Kisii IDPs coordinator Alfred Akama, said they would consult on the way forward. &quot;We were promised Sh200,000 each but we will wait for the President&#39;s promise to issue more funds,&quot; said Mr Akama. ALSO READ: NASA speaks on deal that gave Raila one term [email&#160;protected], [email&#160;protected]