The National Super Alliance (NASA) has stepped up its war against what it calls misuse of public resources as well as involvement of State officers in Jubilee&rsquo;s campaigns. The opposition Thursday gave the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), Keriako Tobiko, sevens to press criminal charges against seven Cabinet secretaries, a principal secretary, and the Kenya Revenue Authority boss. Criminal charges NASA co-principals Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula and Siaya Senator James Orengo also want the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to punish President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy, William Ruto, for &ldquo;blatant misuse of public resources&rdquo; in their Jubilee vote-hunting missions. Those targeted for prosecution include Cabinet secretaries Fred Matiang&rsquo;i (Education), Eugene Wamalwa (Water), Mwangi Kiunjuri (Devolution), James Macharia (Transport), and Najib Balala (Tourism). The others are Cleopa Mailu (Health) and Joseph Nkaisery (Interior). Principal Secretary Joseph Njoroge (Energy) and Kenya Revenue Authority boss John Njiraini are also on the list. This comes just a day after the Law Society of Kenya demanded that Mr Njoroge and Mr Njiraini be investigated for taking part in President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s campaign fundraiser last Friday. ALSO READ: Internal competition threatens Raila vote NASA National Campaign Committee Chairman Musalia Mudavadi said the nine officers have been notorious for breaching the Election Offences Act 2016. Using State assets The coalition blamed IEBC, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, and the DPP for &ldquo;conveniently colluding to defraud citizens of free, fair, and credible elections&rdquo;. &ldquo;We have seen over the past two months State and public officers engage in political activity in support of Jubilee Party and its candidates, including the President, in the General Election. Private prosecution &ldquo;The same officers are using State resources and assets, including government vehicles, in the campaigns,&rdquo; said NASA&rsquo;s letter to Mr Tobiko. NASA said it would institute private prosecution should the DPP fail to act. ALSO READ: Academics flexing muscles in Turkana race for Senate &ldquo;Take notice that if you do not take appropriate action against the said officers within seven days from the date hereof, NASA will have no alternative but to instruct our lawyers to institute private prosecutions against each and every one of the officers without further reference to you,&rdquo; the letter added. [email&#160;protected]