Kisumu Senator Anyang&rsquo; Nyong&rsquo;o has admitted that unseating Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma will not be a walk in the park. And to counter that, he plans to use all his political strength and strategy to win. Prof Nyong&rsquo;o said Mr Ranguma&rsquo;s candidature presents a tough opponent and therefore he cannot sit pretty even after winning the coveted Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party ticket. In previous elections, those nominated by ODM were guaranteed of an easy win but this time round it&rsquo;s a different ball game thanks to the independent candidates. Yesterday, Prof Nyong&rsquo;o met ODM candidates for various seats from Kisumu County, calling upon them to support his bid for the county&rsquo;s top job. &ldquo;We must not underestimate our opponents. It is not that we have surrendered, but it is a fact that we are facing a strong foe and we have to work hard in order to win,&rdquo; said Nyong&rsquo;o. ALSO READ: Do you trust IEBC will clean up the voter register? Ranguma controversially lost to Nyong&rsquo;o in the ODM primaries held last month, but has since secured approval by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to defend his seat as an independent candidate. And with the Governor pledging a bruising battle against Nyong&rsquo;o whom he has accused of rigging the nominations, the Senator seems to have changed tack in facing the Governor. Nyong&rsquo;o said he will not reveal his strategies ahead of the polls, but confirmed that he had studied his opponent&rsquo;s strengths and weaknesses and is confident of a win. &ldquo;For this reason, every ODM candidate from the MCA to the top level must not just campaign for himself or herself, but preach the gospel of six-piece,&rdquo; said Nyong&rsquo;o. The Senator was joined by the party&rsquo;s Kisumu County Presidential Campaign Secretariat chaired by Kennedy Ajwang. The leaders present agreed to work together in the battle to win elections. Also present at the meeting was Deputy Governor Ruth Odinga.