The electoral agency has cleared five women to contest the Woman Representative&#39;s seat. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) office cleared them in Lamu town, paving way for a titanic battle to wrest the seat from incumbent Shakila Abdalla. Besides Ms Abdalla of the Wiper Democratic Movement, others who were given the nod are Muthoni Marubu, who is vying as an independent candidate, Ruweida Obo (Jubilee Party), Maryam Abubakar (Maendeleo Chap Chap) and Aisha Nazir of the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM). Preach peace On Friday, county returning officer Mohamed Adan urged the candidates to preach peace, saying anyone found breaking the rules would be arrested and prosecuted. Mr Adan told supporters it was illegal to destroy rivals&#39; campaign material as it had been outlawed in law. ALSO READ: Opinion: Anti-graft agency failed to raise integrity bar in aspirants' vetting &quot;Tell your supporters that it is illegal to destroy an opponent&#39;s campaign material, it is a criminal offence and those found will be arrested and taken to court,&quot; said Adan. He also told them to observe peace as the county headed to the next general election. Ms Shakila, after being cleared, said she would continue making sure youths affected by drugs were rehabilitated. &quot;I have to continue making sure the youths who are into drugs are assisted. We&#39;ll take them to rehabilitation centres so that they can change their behaviours,&quot; said Shakila. Ms Marubu, a new entrant, said if elected, she would make sure funds allocated to women are well utilised. The aspirant said she would ensure all children go to school regardless of their religion. Marubu added that the education sector in the country needed reforms. She also said she would fight to ensure more money was added to the kitty. ALSO READ: Opinion:Why elections are Kenya's costly mistake repeated every 5 years Ms Abubakar said she would be a servant of the people and would be answerable to wananchi. Ruweida said she would open a sacco to empower women financially.