New jobs, free secondary school education, expanded health care and social welfare system top the list of Jubilee&rsquo;s promises for Kenya. In a manifesto unveiled yesterday, the Uhuru Kenyatta administration targeted key voter constituencies with promises to create over 6.5 million new jobs in five years, expansion of free maternity care, and doubling the fertiliser subsidy initiative at less than Sh1,500 to reduce the cost to farmers The Jubilee leaders also pledged to construct over 500,000 low cost houses and 57 large-scale dams across the country. Uhuru further promised that if re-elected, all Kenyans will be connected to electricity within three years of his second term in office. Elderly persons Jubilee also promised to double the number of elderly persons under the cash transfer programme and also reduce endemic corruption in procurement of Government services and goods through digitalisation of all state tenders. ALSO READ: Jubilee Party nominations row as Nakuru leaders differ &ldquo;Jubilee government has already delivered improved security, economic stability and jobs. We have expanded access to affordable health care and modernised public services. But we now need to redouble our efforts to build upon the foundations of success. The task is not yet complete. The work must continue and should not be derailed,&rdquo; Uhuru said. &ldquo;I seek to continue to serve as President of our great country because I have the vision, experience, skills and trust to deliver the stability, continuity and responsible governance that our country needs at this critical moment in our development journey,&rdquo; he continued. The manifesto stressed continuity of Jubilee programmes, which has been Uhuru and his deputy William Ruto&rsquo;s rallying call on the campaign trail to counter the Opposition change slogan. Critics of the Jubilee administration cite the rising cost of living, in particular the prevailing shortage of low cost maize flour, unemployment, and corruption. Yesterday, the President said the past four years had proved that his team can deliver on promises made to Kenyans. &ldquo;When I promise &ndash; I deliver,&rdquo; he said. The manifesto, he said, was a blueprint for the country&rsquo;s development. ALSO READ: Jubilee Party nominations row as Nakuru leaders differ &ldquo;It is our plan for how we will continue to make the aspirations of us all, and for our nation,&rdquo; he said. Create jobs Under the Jubilee party manifesto, Uhuru and Ruto say they will create 1.3 million jobs every year and work with governors to establish at least one industry in every county as their number one promise. They also plan to establish a government sponsored apprenticeship programme of up to 12 months for all university and Technical and Vocation Education Training Centre (TVET) graduates to enable them gain practical experience. Jubilee also plans to double the number of vulnerable citizens supported through the cash transfer programme dubbed Inua Jamii from 700,000 to 1,400,000. This will include all citizens above the age of 70 who will, in addition, receive free health insurance cover through National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF). The fourth promise is the expansion of the free primary school programme to include free day public secondary schools in Kenya. This, the party says, is a step towards achieving 100 per cent transition from primary to secondary school. Uhuru also pledged to double funds available under the Higher Education Loans Board to provide more loans and bursaries for TVET and university students. ALSO READ: Inside Raila manifesto ahead of launch today School curricular will be aligned with the needs of industries. The fifth pledge states that a second term for Jubilee will see facilitation the construction of at least 500,000 affordable homes in 5 years across the country. This, the party pledged, will be done in partnership with financial institutions, private developers, manufacturers of building materials and cooperatives to deliver houses faster and reduce the cost of construction by at least 50 per cent. Uhuru promised to create a new fund to help accelerate house construction. &ldquo;(We will) Establish a National Social Housing Development Fund and create alternative financing strategies to finance low cost housing and the associated social and physical infrastructure,&rdquo; pledged the party. In its sixth pledge, Jubilee says it will expand free maternity care to include government funded NHIF cover for every expectant mother for one year. The seventh promise is to ensure every citizen is connected to reliable and affordable electricity (on or off-grid) by 2020. Another key pledge was the expansion of food and agricultural production, double the fertilizer subsidy initiative and reducing its cost to less than Sh1,500. The subsidy programme will be expanded to include all crops with a resultant increase in production. Uhuru also pledged to support the expansion and capacity of local fertiliser manufacturing. ALSO READ: Seven point promise by Jubilee Government for Counties The ninth undertaking by Jubilee if it wins back power in August 8 polls will be to complete 57-large-scale dam construction programme, support small-holder agricultural irrigation and work with the private sector to enhance food and agricultural production on at least 1.2 million acres. The tenth promise was to make the Government more accountable through the digitisation of all government procurement; expand and deliver e-government services through the growing network of Huduma Centres. &ldquo;We will develop the Huduma network, expand the automation of public service delivery systems, digitise payments for all public services and enhance use of technology in law enforcement and support and enhance investment in the capacity of the judiciary to expedite the hearing and disposal of economic crime cases,&rdquo; states the party manifesto. Economic crimes The party also promised to raise penalties for economic crimes and work with the Judiciary to ensure that these are resolved within 6 months, immediately deploy an enhanced protection and reward framework for whistle blowers and publish annual details of all procurement awards for major government projects. Unlike in 2013, when they promised to construct five state of the art stadiums in five towns, which were not delivered, the Jubilee party now only commits itself to continue providing and improving sports facilities by finalising the construction of three new stadiums in Nairobi, Mombasa and Eldoret and the Kenya Academy of Sports. &ldquo;We will also upgrade regional stadia in Kiambu, Makueni, Elgeyo Marakwet, Marsabit, Nyeri and Chuka and invest in setting up youth teams.&rdquo;&nbsp;