The vitriolic outbursts by Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago and Kapseret Member of Parliament Oscar Sudi and his Nandi Hills counterpart Alfred Keter are quite unfortunate. At the weekend, the three issued a warning to communities residing in the cosmopolitan county &quot;to take note&quot; before they vote in the August 8 General Election. Uasin Gishu is a cosmopolitan county originally inhabited by three main Kalenjin sub-tribes; Nandi, Keiyo, Marakwet. Agriculture, transport, retail business and education have attracted other communities like the Tugen, the Kikuyu and the Luhya and even Kisii into the county known for its grain and dairy production; it is also a critical financial services centre and hosts one of the three branches of the Central Bank of Kenya. Moreover, it is a transit route for commodities exiting into Uganda, Kenya&#39;s largest export market; it also hosts training facilities for Kenya&#39;s world-beating athletes. With such a high profile, it is no wonder then that Eldoret attracts people of all shades and colour. No leader worth his salt would undermine such a potential. Sadly, that is what Mr Mandago, Mr Sudi and Mr Keter are doing to Eldoret. When leaders of Mandago&#39;s stature speak, their words carry a lot of weight. Their utterances incite the public. It should be made clear to the likes of Mandago that the age of tribal jingoism is long gone. In September last year, Mandago led a group of MPs, among them Mr Sudi, in a protest to reverse the appointment of Laban Ayiro, the acting Vice Chancellor of Moi University because of his tribe. Yet despite that, Mandago could be harbouring genuine grievances. But then, that doesn&#39;t justify resorting to public pronouncements with the potential to cause strife. ALSO READ: Mr President, it is not their fault they won't see what you've done Eldoret was the epicentre of the 2007/08 post-election violence and anything that risks stirring up those ghosts should be condemned in the strongest terms. That is why the silence from the President and his deputy (a resident of Uasin Gishu) is perturbing.