Opposition leaders have asked Nyanza voters not to let down National Super Alliance (NASA) presidential candidate Raila Odinga. Against the backdrop of intense feuds in the region sparked by rivalry between ODM and independent candidates, NASA co-principal Musalia Mudavadi asked voters to respect Raila&#39;s wishes and embrace the controversial &#39;six-suit&#39; voting pattern; referring to voting ODM candidates in all the six elective posts. Mudavadi said the debate over whether the region should only vote for ODM party or independent candidates derails the coalition&#39;s plan of&nbsp;forming a strong government with a majority in Parliament and the Senate. Speaking on behalf of his colleagues, Kalonzo Musyoka, Moses Wetang&#39;ula and Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, when they joined Raila in Bondo , Mudavadi said Nyanza leaders must be seen to be supporting Raila as a block without stirring controversies over the party primaries. ODM is facing a tough hurdle to capture seats in the region after a number of its members quit the party to contest as independent candidates after the controversial primaries. The independent candidates have resolved to support Raila but are asking their supporters to vote for candidates of their choice in the other seats. ALSO READ: NASA leaders take change gospel to DP Ruto's backyard But, Mudavadi who addressed a jubilant crowd in Bondo town after attending a church service at Jaramogi Oginga Odinga University of&nbsp;Science and Technology said the country had faith in Raila and as a result should get similar support from his stronghold. &quot;We have total belief in Raila and that is why we even shelved our presidential ambitions to support him and that belief and unity is what we want to see in his backyard,&quot; said Mudavadi. The leaders had earlier attended the consecration of the new Bondo Anglican Church of Kenya (ACK) bishop David Kodia. Mudavadi said all principals respect and support Raila and as a result, should be accorded the same respect back at home and that his supporters should respect his decisions and calls. &quot;My question for you is that if we have accorded Raila great respect, why not you?&quot; he posed. &nbsp;