Police imposter Joshua Waiganjo has finally been released on bond by a Naivasha court after over four years in custody. Waiganjo was all smiles after Naivasha chief magistrate Dominica Nyambu released him on a bond of Sh0.5m and a surety of the same or a cash bail of Sh200,000. The move comes a week after Waiganjo was charged afresh with five charges of impersonation and been in possession of police uniforms. Waiganjo denied the charges but the prosecution opposed his release on bond so as to confirm if he was serving any jail sentence. State counsel Amboko Biena told the court that she did not have any objections as the accused was not serving any jail term. Through lawyer Leney Morande, Waiganjo applied to be supplied with all the documentary evidence that had been used in the previous case. ALSO READ: Waiganjo to know his fate by end of June The court directed that the accused be supplied with the documents and set the October 12, 2017 as the hearing date. Speaking after the ruling, Waiganjo said that was keen to vie for the Njoro parliamentary seat after IEBC cleared him. Waiganjo insisted that he was innocent adding that some individuals wanted to fix him for unknown reasons. &quot;I have suffered in jail for over four years but am glad that I have been released on bond as this will give me a better chance to defend myself,&quot; he said. Waiganjo had been charged that on the 28th of September 2012 he posed as an assistant commissioner of police. He faced three other charges of being in possession of government stores contrarily to section 36 of the penal code. The fifth charge stated that on the 8th June 2012 in Naivasha town, he was found wearing a police uniform with the rank of an assistant commissioner of police. ALSO READ: Nominated Senator Njoroge lashes out at DP Ruto over 2022 presidential bid Last week, Waiganjo wrote to the Chief Justice David Maranga seeking to have his criminal case at the Naivasha law courts transferred to another court. In a letter dated 14th June and addressed to Maranga, Waiganjo said that he had never known peace since 31st December 2012 when he was placed behind bars. &quot;I request your office to transfer this case from Naivasha law courts to either Nairobi or Nakuru as I feel that I will not get justice from this law courts (Naivasha),&quot; he said in the letter.&nbsp;