Ida Odinga (right) and Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero during a meeting with women at Kilimani Primary School in Nairobi. The NASA flag bearer Raila Odinga&rsquo;s wife Ida Odinga Saturday rallied Nairobi women to vote for her husband. Addressing hundreds of women at Kilimani Primary in Dagorreti North Constituency, Ida assured the women that this was her last campaign for Raila&rsquo;s race to State House. &ldquo;I appeal to my fellow women to give him this last chance,&rdquo; said Ida. &ldquo;Even God is hearing me from heaven. Vote for NASA to form the next government and change the lives of Kenyans. Women who contribute 55 per cent of those who vote, should rally others to support us and also be vigilant in protecting the votes cast.&rdquo; She revisited the contentious issue of two thirds gender rule, which she regretted has remained elusive, but promised to ensure it is implemented under the NASA government. Ida, who has been absent in the limelight for a while now, apologised to the women and Kenyans for her low profile. &ldquo;I ask for forgiveness. I know there are those who looked for me even during the nominations but didn&rsquo;t find me. Things didn&rsquo;t go well in the nominations and women especially were shortchanged because the exercise was disorganised,&rdquo; she said. ALSO READ: The enemy within: Why &lsquo;friendly fire&rsquo; could be NASA&rsquo;s Achilles heel Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero said like in the picking of the NASA candidate, some of the seats will be won through consensus, especially those of Woman Representative. &ldquo;Women are the foundation of every family. They know the changes and therefore under the misrule of this government. Raila must take over leadership of this country because he has the vision to address the challenges,&rdquo; he said.&rdquo; Deputy Governor Jonathan Mweke, aspirants Esther Passaris ()DM Woman Rep), Edwin SIfuna (Senator), Rahab Nyambuki (Wiper Woman Rep), Simba Arati (Dagoretti South) and George Aladwa (Madaraka), also emphasized on the need for strategy to win elections. [Roselyn Obala] The NASA flag bearer Raila Odinga&rsquo;s wife Ida Odinga Saturdayy rallied Nairobi women to vote for her husband. Addressing hundreds of women at Kilimani Primary in Dagorreti North Constituency, Ida assured the women that this was her last campaign for Raila&rsquo;s race to State House. &ldquo;I appeal to my fellow women to give him this last chance,&rdquo; said Ida. &ldquo;Even God is hearing me from heaven. Vote for NASA to form the next government and change the lives of Kenyans. Women who contribute 55 per cent of those who vote, should rally others to support us and also be vigilant in protecting the votes cast.&rdquo; She revisited the contentious issue of two thirds gender rule, which she regretted has remained elusive, but promised to ensure it is implemented under the NASA government. Ida, who has been absent in the limelight for a while now, apologised to the women and Kenyans for her low profile. ALSO READ: Raila unveils six teams to steer his State House bid &ldquo;I ask for forgiveness. I know there are those who looked for me even during the nominations but didn&rsquo;t find me. Things didn&rsquo;t go well in the nominations and women especially were shortchanged because the exercise was disorganised,&rdquo; she said. Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero said like in the picking of the NASA candidate, some of the seats will be won through consensus, especially those of Woman Representative. &ldquo;Women are the foundation of every family. They know the changes and therefore under the misrule of this government. Raila must take over leadership of this country because he has the vision to address the challenges,&rdquo; he said.&rdquo; Deputy Governor Jonathan Mweke, aspirants Esther Passaris (ODM Woman Rep), Edwin Sifuna (Senator), Rahab Nyambuki (Wiper Woman Rep), Simba Arati (Dagoretti South) and George Aladwa (Madaraka), also emphasized on the need for strategy to win elections.&nbsp;