Politicians who incite Kenyans ahead of the August 8 polls will face stern action, President Uhuru Kenyatta has said. The Head of State said the Government will not condone any act of lawlessness and further cautioned that there is no room for those who want to snatch away the property others have laboured to amass. &ldquo;These acts of lawlessness will be dealt with. There is no room for those who want to divide us. There is no room for those who want to raise their hands against their brothers, sisters and fellow countrymen,&rdquo; the President said. He cited the recent bandit attacks in Kerio Valley where people were killed and livestock stolen as unfortunate and urged the communities to embrace in peace. Speaking when he presided over the passing out parade of KDF soldiers at the Recruit Training School (RTS) Eldoret in Uasin Gishu County yesterday, the President said his administration will ensure calm is restored in the clash-torn counties to enable residents participate in their economic activities without interference. &ldquo;Perpetrators of violence and lawlessness will be dealt with. Leaders of incitement and violence will learn a lesson,&rdquo; the Head of State said. ALSO READ: The billionaires oiling Uhuru, Raila campaigns At the same time, he commended the graduates for their high standards of training, discipline and professionalism and advised the recruits to uphold integrity and loyalty by obeying their superiors. Prepared well He urged the soldiers for continuous training for effective performance saying they have been prepared well and entrusted with the duty to shield and defend the country&rsquo;s sovereignty. &ldquo;Men and women who serve in KDF are drawn from all corners of our republic and are from all religions. Your professionalism, unity and patriotism have kept you united. As your President and Commander-in-Chief, it falls to me to protect that unity,&rdquo; said the President. President Uhuru observed that KDF has won international repute because of their high standards of training and professionalism in international peace keeping missions under the United Nations (UN) and African union (AU). He commended the Kenyan soldiers who have participated in the fight against the terror group Al&nbsp;Shabaab&nbsp;in the neighbouring Somalia. &ldquo;Our collective efforts in the fight against the terror group have led to the establishment of civilian governments in Somalia,&rdquo; he added. He also honoured the gallant soldiers who have lost their lives in line of duty. ALSO READ: Should candidates reveal sources of their campaign cash? &ldquo;We remember our gallant soldiers who have lost their lives. We honour them for their patriotism and the call to duty. It calls for bravery among us to win this terror war,&rdquo; he said. [email&#160;protected]