A man has sued the Government for failing to stop National Super Alliance (NASA) presidential candidate Raila Odinga from vying in the August 8 polls. Mr Charles Mwangi now wants President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered to form a special commission to investigate Attorney General Githui Muigai, anti-graft commission chairman Eliud Wabukala, electoral commission chairman Wafula Chebukati and Inspector General Joseph Boinnet. &quot;Prof Muigai, Mr Wabukhala, Mr Chebukati and Mr Boinnet are solely responsible for Mr Odinga&#39;s candidature and should be suspended from office. They failed to investigate Mr Odinga to ascertain if he has the integrity to be the president,&quot; said Mwangi. Mwangi also wants the court to order the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to cancel the clearance certificate it issued to the NASA presidential candidate until it is proven that he has the integrity to hold the top job. According to the petitioner, Odinga was to blame for the 2007/2008 post-election violence for calling his supporters to mass action instead of going to court to challenge the rigged presidential election results. He accused Boinnet and Prof Muigai of deliberately failing to form a special unit to investigate and prosecute the Opposition leader over his role in the violence that rocked the country. ALSO READ: Uhuru, Ruto tear apart NASA manifesto in Kirinyaga campaigns He also wants Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang&#39;i to investigate Odinga&#39;s academic qualifications and if his engineering degree from Germany is recognized by the Commission for Higher Education. &quot;The Education CS should be compelled to table in court Mr Odinga&#39;s genuine primary and secondary school certificates to ascertain if he has the required qualifications to run the country,&quot; said Mwangi. The petitioner further wants the court to determine why the NASA leader was not charged at the International Criminal Court (ICC) despite being the one in charge of the Orange Democratic Movement which contested the presidential results outcome in 2007. Mwangi accused IEBC of ignoring his concerns, saying that he wrote to the commission on May 11 not to clear Mr Odinga until his academic certificates are authenticated but the commission went ahead to clear him. He wants the court to grant him police protection, claiming that his petition has high stakes that will put his life at risk.