The National Super Alliance has accused the Government of trying to divide the western Kenya vote. The Opposition leaders said Jubilee was determined to ensure the Luhya do not vote as a bloc in the August 8 elections. Speaking during campaign rallies in Busia County, NASA co-principal Moses Wetang&#39;ula said Bungoma Governor Ken Lusaka, Budalang&#39;i MP Ababu Namwamba and Water Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa were out to divide the western votes. According to Wetang&#39;ula, the three are in Jubilee to enrich themselves and not for the interests of the people of western. He said Jubilee was worried that for the first time in history, Western was solidly behind one presidential candidate. &quot;Do not stay at home and hope Raila will win without your vote. Come out in large numbers and vote to guarantee us victory,&quot; said Wetang&#39;ula. ALSO READ: Male champions in fight for gender equality DATE WITH DESTINY Mr Wetang&#39;ula said Kenyans have a date with history to send Jubilee home. &quot;I sympathise with MPs from Western who have been cheated to join Jubilee because their days are numbered,&quot; he added. The NASA principals&#39; onslaught against the re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta continued as they accused Jubilee of taking the western region for granted. The team traversed Busia County to counter inroads made by President Uhuru Kenyatta during his visit of the region in the past three weeks. The team split up in order to cover almost every part of the county. The coalition&#39;s presidential candidate Raila Odinga teamed up with co-principal and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang&#39;ula and addressed rallies in Siagonjo, Port Victoria, Ganga, Funyula and Bumala. Co-principals&nbsp; Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) addressed rallies in Kolanya, Changara, Angurai Simba Chai and then Nambale. ALSO READ: Francis Atwoli calls for acceptance of election results The two teams then converged at Busia Stadium for the main rally. Raila criticised President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy, William Ruto, for making empty promises to locals whenever they tour the region. Raila said the objective of the numerous trips to Western was to hoodwink the locals to vote for Jubilee in the August election. He claimed there was no tangible project Jubilee initiated by Uhuru in the region. &quot;Most of the projects that Jubilee launched in Western have not taken off. This&nbsp;government does not mean well for the region,&quot; he said. TAKING CREDIT He alleged that the Sh1.2 billion Sigiri bridge in Budalang&#39;i that President Kenyatta commissioned was his brainchild when he was the Prime Minister and Uhuru the Minister for Finance. The Opposition leader claimed that at the time, Uhuru refused to release money for construction of the bridge, which is due for completion mid next month. ALSO READ: Francis Atwoli calls for acceptance of election results Raila said there was nothing Jubilee had done to warrant Uhuru&#39;s re-election. &quot;Recently, Uhuru came here to commission Sigiri bridge, which was my brainchild. He is the one who refused to release the money when he was serving as Finance minister,&quot; he said. He said during his tenure as Roads minister, he ensured the road from Mayoni-Ejinja-Bumala to Port Victoria was constructed. He said his regime would offer free education from nursery to secondary school with relevant stationery supplied to learning facilities. He promised the local fishermen that he would engage Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni to ask his security officers to stop harassing them. Raila slammed Uhuru for failing to address the plight of fishermen who are harassed by Ugandan authorities for going beyond Kenya&#39;s waters. &quot;Why did the President not address the issue of harassment of our fishermen when he came here? I will have to talk to President Museveni to allow our fishermen to do fishing without harassment,&quot; said Raila. He further said NASA had laid down proper measures to safeguard its votes. ALSO READ: Free healthcare for elderly tops President Uhuru's poll manifesto &quot;There is no way Jubilee will win. We have put in place measures to ensure none of our vote is stolen,&quot; he said. Kalonzo said the Jubilee team should start preparing to leave office since all indications showed they would be defeated. &quot;Jubilee should start winding up and leave. This will be a revolution because Kenyans are fed up with skyrocketing commodity prices,&quot; he added. &nbsp;