The industrialised Kenya that Vision 2030 foresees will be built on the sweat of entrepreneurs. This is the overwhelming feeling I had on May 31 when I was part of the 1,300 passengers on the maiden trip of Madaraka Express to Nairobi. It took the sweat and brilliance of entrepreneurs and inventors from different countries and centuries for Madaraka Express to be a reality. They range from Thomas Newcomen, the 18th century Englishman who invented the steam engine to George Stephenson, the mechanical engineer, widely considered as the father of Railways. He invented the Standard Gauge Railway that is used by most of the world&rsquo;s railways. Africa must unleash such inventors and entrepreneurs who will apply their innovation and entrepreneurship to solving numerous of our challenges. I believe two major ways Kenya can do this is by equipping young minds to seize innovation through the formal education system and by individually daring to innovate a better country. We currently have a golden chance to infuse innovation inspiration into young minds through the education overhaul that is currently underway in the ongoing process to replace 8-4-4. Equally important, let us appreciate that innovation without entrepreneurship is impotent while entrepreneurship without innovation is ineffective. As a case in point, Kenya&rsquo;s small-scale agriculture is highly ineffective since it is largely about small-scale entrepreneurship without innovation. To change this to a certain extent, farmers should seize the newly unveiled Standard Gauge Railway as a means of reaching a wider market with their produce. There is no government manual on how to do this since innovation is always about individuals embracing new perspectives and charting new paths. This is never easy, but as Theodore Roosevelt the former US President said: &ldquo;When you&rsquo;re at the end of your rope, tie a knot and hold on.&rdquo; Perseverance is a critical ingredient for innovative entrepreneurs. ALSO READ: SGR is here, now let&rsquo;s make it work for Kenyans Whereas capital is often a hindrance for entrepreneurs, more money is gradually flowing into the hands of Kenyan entrepreneurs, at least from government contracts. I was pleasantly surprised to learn that within the last three years, the Access to Government Opportunities programme has made it possible for young entrepreneurs, women and people with disabilities across the country to be paid Sh10.1 billion through 22,800 government contracts. With profound ethics and diligence this can be much better. The question is &ndash; are the beneficiaries of these billions reinvesting to meticulously transform lives? Along the same vein, financial institutions must devise ways of regarding innovation with the same seriousness they treat tangible security like title deeds. Meanwhile, I suggest that President Kenyatta issue&rsquo;s an Executive Order for government officials on official duties in Nairobi or Mombasa to travel by train, not flights. That way, we may save money as we strengthen the young Madaraka Express. Think green, act green! &mdash; The writer is the founder and chairperson, Green Africa Foundation www.isaackalua.com