Of the promises the Jubilee administration made on security, less than half are yet to be met. But out of those met, the effectiveness is either not felt or there has been interference in the process of implementation. The ruling coalition made almost 15 pledges to ensure security for the country. As they read their new manifesto, many will be eager to hear what Jubilee Party will present that will make a convincing case for re-election. In their 2013 manifesto, Jubilee had promised to equip and modernise the security forces, especially through increased motorisation, to enhance the ability to tackle crime in a more efficient and focused manner. This has been met through leasing of more than 5,000 vehicles at an undisclosed cost. ALSO READ: Male champions in fight for gender equality President Uhuru Kenyatta said when Jubilee came to power in 2013, there were 3,155 assorted vehicles and most of them were in bad condition. &#39;BUY KENYA&#39; Another pledge was to ensure that the security forces adopted a &#39;buy Kenya&#39; procurement and maintenance sub-contracting policy to support domestic businesses. This was not met as most of the goods were imported. Jubilee also promised to shake up the National Intelligence Service (NIS) and enhance and invest in the specialist Anti-Terrorism Unit with professional expertise to tackle militant groups such as Al Shabaab. There were changes in the top leadership of NIS. There was a promise to pass a new Prevention of Terrorism Act to give the police and other security forces the powers needed to keep Kenyans safe. ALSO READ: Opinion:Should presidential candidates declare they will accept poll results? The Jubilee administration did not meet the promise to improve police pay and conditions of service or to strengthen the new Independent Police Complaints Authority to provide independent capacity. Instead, independent police institutions have been fought and budgets curtailed. The Government invested heavily in CCTV technology in the fight against crime. It also provided life insurance covers for the disciplined forces. &nbsp;