The NASA presidential campaign team in Nyanza has embarked on a new campaign strategy to mobilise voters. The team has adopted a slogan &ldquo;get out the vote (gotv)&rdquo;, which is expected to get out all eligible voters to cast their votes on August 8. According to NASA Nyanza campaign coordinator Bob Madanji, the team has lined up a number of activities that target door-to-door messaging of voters to get ready for the polls. Over the weekend, the team met NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga and briefed him on the series of activities they have lined up in the villages. Raila reportedly told them it is their civic duty to get out and vote on Election Day, and that he (Raila) would love nothing more than to see every eligible voter cast their ballot. Mr Madanji said the gotv strategy is aimed at achieving over 90 per cent voter turnout in all the six counties of Nyanza. ALSO READ: Voi ODM branch chairman escapes death in car crash Recently, NASA leaders announced another strategy &ldquo;adopt a polling station&rdquo; aimed at &ldquo;protecting the coalition&rsquo;s votes&rdquo;. The gotv and adopt-a-polling-station campaigns give party sympathisers an opportunity to take charge and steer NASA to victory. Meanwhile, Siaya Governor Cornell Rasanga has vowed to sponsor boda boda riders and local taxis on August 8 to ferry the elderly to polling stations and back to their homes. Rasanga also said the taxis will ferry the sick from hospital to polling stations and back, just to make sure everyone participates in the democratic call. &ldquo;We are not going to take any chances this time round. No! We will burn the midnight oil just to ensure Nyanza registers 95 if not 99 per cent voter turnout,&rdquo; he said. Nominated MP Oburu Oginga said the unveiled strategy dubbed &ldquo;adopt a polling station&rdquo; requires massive funding. He said activities of its polling officers at the stations require enough funding to ensure NASA delivers millions of votes. The exercise is likely to cost more than Sh400 million, as each of the polling stations will be manned by at least five people. ALSO READ: Penniless Chepalungu candidate spicing up race with campaigns on a bicycle &nbsp;