Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi wants the electoral agency to take action against President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto for &ldquo;breaching the Electoral Code of Conduct&rdquo;. Mudavadi, in a telephone interview, argued that using State officials like Cabinet secretaries during campaigns was a breach of the Electoral Code of Conduct and action should be taken against the duo. Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju has however &ldquo;clarified&rdquo; that the law did not bar Cabinet secretaries from campaigning. However, he said, the law criminalises such conduct by principal secretaries, who are the State&#39;s accounting officers in ministries. Mudavadi said the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) was suspiciously condoning Jubilee&rsquo;s misuse of State resources and bribery using public resources in adverts disguised as Government accountability. &ldquo;What has Water CS Eugene Wamalwa got to do with the issuance of title deeds? What is the IEBC waiting for? This is unacceptable,&rdquo; said Mudavadi. ALSO READ: Why IEBC picked Dubai firm &nbsp; The law Article 20 of the Election Offences Act states that every officer of a political party and every nominated candidate who attempts to participate in or participates in an election without subscribing to the Electoral Code of Conduct commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one million shillings or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six years or to both. At the same time the National Super Alliance (NASA) co-principal cautioned Jubilee Party against whipping emotions of the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs)-victims of the 2007 Post Election Violence. Mudavadi said it would be hypocritical to resuscitate and regurgitate the plight of IDPs as part of Jubilee&#39;s tactics to win sympathy. Mudavadi said the Jubilee regime was slowly bringing back the International Criminal Court (ICC) cases debate to win votes. &ldquo;Guilt-laden pieces of silver as bribery for long-suffering and discriminated IDPs is too little, too late. Is it a compensation or resettlement? What about the host families who bore the brunt of staying with the integrated IDPs for 10 years?&rdquo; posed Mudavadi. ALSO READ: Election commission&rsquo;s incompetence won&rsquo;t save our democracy In 2016, the Jubilee government had set aside Sh 6 billion to resettle all the IDPs and ensure that they are resettled and have a home to stay. Mudavadi also said President Uhuru and his deputy had run out of useful statements in their hunt for votes since they could not justify some of the projects they were riding on.&nbsp;