The National Construction Authority and Savannah Cement have entered into a deal to advance technical training programmes for contractors. The agreement signed last week will see the two jointly conduct nationwide training and certification programmes for contractors and construction supervisors. &ldquo;We shall be tapping on Savannah Cement&rsquo;s corporate capacity to complement our institutional resources as we remain committed to promote and stimulate the development of the local construction industry,&rdquo; said NCA Executive Director, Daniel Manduku He said the programme would also provide an outreach programme to enhance the technical skills for the almost half a million construction workers in all the 47 counties. &ldquo;We believe in business practices that meet the human needs while at the same time preserving the environment. Our mode of conducting business is geared towards ensuring that our services may be enjoyed in the future through a well preserved environment. We like to involve the staff and the community in our projects to create a sense of responsibility and accountability&rdquo;, said Savannah Cement Managing Director Ronald Ndegwa. The NCA contractor training schedule for financial year 2016/2017 comes to an end in June, while the next commences in July. The trainings are a pre-requisite when it comes to renewal of the annual practicing license, and a component of the CPD programme. Ndegwa said Savannah Cement would deploy its Research and Development Department to train skilled and unskilled workers seeking to acquire skills in basic masonry, excavation, foundation setting, concrete mixing, mortar application and related techniques. The training modules will be e delivered at an estimated cost of Sh30 million. ALSO READ: Construction Authority tightens grip on foreign contractors Due to technological advancements touching on concrete mixing and introduction of new cement products, Ndegwa said, the training sessions, will play a key role in uplifting the artisans&rsquo; skills and capacity to work with a variety of cements including rapid strength development cement products. The NCA is in the process of developing occupational standards for the 59 trades in the industry. So far, standards for masonry and plumbing have been developed, while those for carpentry, electrical works, steel fixing and scaffolding are in the process. The occupational standards are an outline of the required competencies to perform the duties required by each trade.&nbsp;