A war of words has escalated between Kajiado West MP Moses ole Sakuda&nbsp; and Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery. The lawmaker blamed the CS for his loss in April&#39;s Jubilee Party nominations. Mr Sakuda lost the nominations to Keekonyokie MCA George Sunkuyia, who is the deputy speaker at the Kajiado county assembly. But the MP accused Mr Nkaissery of interfering with the Jubilee Party nominations in Kajiado and favouring his former party, Orange Democratic Movement (ODM), aspirants. &quot;We know that Nkaissery still owes allegiance to ODM and that is why he wants to eliminate strong people in the county so that it can work in favour of Governor David Nkedianye and ODM,&quot; he said. He claimed that ODM supporters were mobilised to vote for Sunkuyia in the nominations. ALSO READ: Nairobi-Nakuru highway blocked in protests over Jubilee primaries &quot;On this one, our party is to blame; the decision to discard the use of Jubilee membership cards as a way of identifying Jubilee members during the nominations opened the way for ODM supporters to participate in our nominations,&quot; he added. Sakuda will be defending his seat as an independent candidate. But in a quick rejoinder, Nkaissery denied the allegations, saying he was not contesting any seat in the county. &quot;Those are mere allegations. If wananchi deny you a chance to lead them again by voting you out, how is Nkaissery involved in that?&quot; posed the CS. Nkaissery also denied supporting ODM candidates in the county, and vowed to continue supporting Jubilee Party. &quot;If by telling my people that Jubilee is the place (to be) is seen to be political so be it. I am not lying when I say that Kajiado is 100 per cent Jubilee, neither is it propaganda,&quot; he said. The CS was speaking at the rural home of Kajiado County Assembly Speaker Johnson Osoi in Olotulukum, Kajiado Central. ALSO READ: Opinion: Nkaissery should stop yelling his useless gag orders During the event, supporters of a former Kenya Meat Commission chair Tarayia ole Kores shifted their allegiance and are now supporting former Internal Security CS Joseph ole Lenku who clinched Jubilee&#39;s ticket for the Kajiado governor seat.&nbsp;