The Government is set to recruit chaplains for all public secondary schools to tame cases of students unrest and promote value-based learning. The chaplains will, however, be required to double up as teachers to take care of the 2.5 million students enrolled in the 9,000 secondary schools. Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang&#39;i made the revelation yesterday when he met the National Association of Christian Chaplains representatives. More than 200 chaplains attended the meeting,&shy; all of whom are teachers but not under Government payroll. Dr Matiang&#39;i said he would receive report proposing to entrench chaplaincy in schools tomorrow and promised fast action, adding that formal structures to entrench chaplaincy in schools would be in place by January 2018. This means that when schools open for first term next year, the recruitment process of the chaplains will have kicked off and deployed to schools. ALSO READ: Tononoka off to winning start The chaplains will, however, be vetted by the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) to ensure they are members of recognised religious outfits. Religious groups will also vet and approve the persons who will be recruited by TSC and deployed in all the schools. TSC will develop a scheme of service for the chaplains, expected to check moral decadence that has hit schools leading to destruction of property. The development is a response to contain school unrest as was witnessed across many secondary schools, last year. According to the report of Special Investigation Team commissioned by Matiang&#39;i, a total of 483 incidents of students unrest were reported last year. Fire cases were 239. In second term alone, the Clare Omollo report found that there were 429 incidents; 219 fires and 210 other forms of unrest. &quot;In most instances, students burnt dormitories with all their personal effects,&quot; reads the report. Some 1,075 suspects were arrested after investigations; 1,029 were students and 46 non-students. ALSO READ: Kakamega in dream start A total of 809 of the suspects were prosecuted; 778 were students and 31 were teachers and support staff who were charged with conspiracy to commit arson, attempted arson, malicious damage to property and arson.