Church-run hospitals are struggling to cope with the big number of patients that have flooded the facilities, a Catholic sister has said. The influx of patients - both outpatient and inpatient - has been occasioned by the ongoing nurses&rsquo; strike. The healthcare givers downed their tools over pay a stalemate with the Government. Kiirua Mission Hospital in Buuri sub-county is one of the affected facilities, according to Sister Agnes Nkatha, the hospital&rsquo;s administrator. &ldquo;We are handling a lot of emergency situations and have had to recall all employees on leave,&rdquo; said Sister Nkatha. She said they had been forced to increase the number of staff, and also recalled those on leave. &ldquo;All our departments are overwhelmed and the stores are also running out of commodities. We really hope the issue in Government hospitals is resolved so that normalcy is restored,&rdquo; she said. ALSO READ: Why she is acting like there are diamonds at the top of her thighs The nurses&rsquo; strike has crippled operations in public facilities, including the Meru Referral and Teaching Hospital (MRTH) in Meru town. Additional beds &ldquo;We are seeing about 300 out-patient cases daily. We have been forced to bring 110 additional beds to meet the demand,&rdquo; she added. Cottolengo Mission Hospital administrator Brother Giancarlo Chiesa said patients evacuated from MRTH posed a challenge. &ldquo;We are in trouble because we are overwhelmed. We have run out of beds and so many patients have been forced to share,&rdquo; said Br Chiesa. Chiesa said the Catholic-ran hospital had a 120-bed capacity. Sharing beds ALSO READ: CoG threatens legal action on striking nurses &ldquo;But now we have 260 in-patients so they have to share. We had more than 10 newborn babies from MRTH, so we are in an extremely bad situation,&rdquo; said Chiesa. He said due to the fact that the hospital is the cheapest in the county, it is usually overstretched as many prefer it to private and public hospital. &ldquo;We had more than 60 patients from MRTH alone, and others from others affected by the health workers&rsquo; strike,&rdquo; Chiesa said. [Phares Mutembei]