Calls for speedy investigations into the murder of three children brutally murdered three weeks ago dominated their memorial service in Eldoret Thursday. Emotions ran high during the service at the Moi Teaching and Referral Mortuary as thousands turned up to mourn the death of the minors. As the caskets bearing the remains of the three boys were brought out from the mortuary, their mother, Ebby Isaji, wept uncontrollably, as the father, James Ratemo, who is an aspiring MCA for Kapsoya ward, gave her a shoulder to lean on. Some of the striking nurses at the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital gathered to pay their last respects and condole with the mother who works at the health facility. The mourners were distraught and inconsolable after viewing the children&#39;s bodies. At Eldoville Seventh Day Adventist Church where the brief prayer service was held, tears flowed freely as friends and family joined the family members. The children, Clifford Nyambane (6), Taniy Nyamweya (5) and Glen Ongaki (3), will be buried today in Nyangusu, Kisii County. Leaders and friends who attended the church service called for speedy investigations into the killings. ALSO READ: &lsquo;I will not abandon race after my three children were murdered&rsquo; Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno condemned the killings and called on the security agencies to ensure those responsible were brought to book. &quot;I condemn the heinous act in the strongest terms possible. It is the saddest and most difficult thing for a parent to lose three children at once. Investigations should be done fast to ensure those behind the act are brought to book,&quot; said Mr Chemno. The family spokesman, Charles Nyamweya, appreciated the help given from various quarters since the tragedy struck. &quot;We are grateful for the help we have received from all quarters. We wish that those who committed the killings will be made to pay for their deeds,&quot; said Mr Nyamweya. According to postmortem results, the children were strangled to death before their bodies were thrown into River Nzoia, last month.&nbsp;