The ongoing nurses&#39; strike has brought operations in public hospitals across the country to a standstill. Most wards in public hospitals are empty as many of the facilities have discharge patients. In Nairobi hospitals, operations have been crippled, with only critical cases being referred to Kenyatta National Hospital and the private St Mary&#39;s Hospital in Lang&#39;ata. At the Mbagathi hospital, The Standard team found only two patients in the men&#39;s ward, who were unattended. They said they had nowhere to go after being discharged last week. According to the cleaners, doctors were in the wards on Friday to check on the patients, but have not been back since. The maternity section was not admitting any expectant mothers. ALSO READ: Proposed law to take away health sector from governors Casualty department &quot;The doctor told me the hospital cannot continue with treatment since nurses are not around,&quot; said one patient. At the casualty department, where the corridors are usually jammed with long queues, there was only a handful of patients who were waiting for a lone intern nurse to assist them. It was the same situation at Mama Lucy Hospital. Only intern nurses were available to attend to the few patients there. The Council of Governors has said counties would employ more interns to salvage the worsening situation triggered by the nurses&#39; strike. The available interns are struggling with the growing number of patients. &quot;The work load is overwhelming but we have no choice but to attend to the patients,&quot; one intern said. ALSO READ: Kakamega hospital doctor loses baby as nurses strike At the Kisumu County referral hospital, there was only one blind and starving patient. Large planks of wood were nailed across the doors of the wards. &quot;I do not know what is happening but I know that I am all alone here and have been for days,&quot; said the patient, Duncan Ochieng. Area residents now rely on private hospitals. Those unable to afford the high cost of the private facilities are seeking the services of herbalists. In Siaya, the county government has threatened to sack the nurses who will not report to work by today. According to a letter addressed to the county secretary general of the Kenya National Union of Nurses, the county says it was not served with adequate strike notice. The letter signed by the county health chief officer, Dorothy Owino, states that the strike has affected the delivery of essential services. &quot;Nurses must understand that any dispute between employers and employees must have a structured mechanism of addressing it,&quot; said the chief officer. The county has ordered all nurses on leave to report to work. ALSO READ: County government app to curb drug theft