The contest for Embu County governor&rsquo;s seat is shaping up to be a bruising political battle between incumbent Martin Wambora and Senator Lenny Kivuti. The exit of Runyenjes MP Cecily Mbarire from the gubernatorial contest has left Wambora, Kivuti and Development Consultant Kithinji Kiragu to fight it out in a county that is currently divided along the Embu and Mbeere communities. Both Kivuti and Kiragu have claimed the county had failed to account for a staggering Sh23 billion received from the equalisation fund and there was little to show on the ground. But Wambora, who noted that the county had only received less than Sh20 billion, with 60 per cent used to pay a huge workforce. Wambora has said that he is banking on his development record to clinch a second term in office. The governor last week urged locals to vote for him to enable him complete dozens of projects initiated in the last four years. Speaking to residents of Nginda village in Manyatta Constituency, Wambora said he will from next week launch the last series of projects in the county, key among them the multi-million 12.2 kilometres Embu/Kibugu town ring road. &ldquo;This is not a campaign trick; we want to launch them so that we can have new ones once Embu people give us another mandate,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: Uhuru&rsquo;s bag of goodies for farmers in Western The governor won the Jubilee Party ticket in the primaries in April, giving him an edge over his rivals. He noted that two and a half years of his term were distracted by infighting triggered by opponents and had therefore slowed development projects. He said he had installed floodlights in 65 townships and markets throughout the county, leading to improved security and creation of a 24 hour economy. &ldquo;We installed solar lighting in Embu town backed up by CCTV cameras along the Embu-Nairobi Highway,&rdquo; he said. He noted that his administration had put up a macadamia factory and currently exports nuts to Germany and employs over 200 youth.