A section of Jubilee aspirants in Kericho and Laikipia counties have rejected proposed nominees to the county assembly. In a signed letter by the 30 Jubilee ward nominees from Kericho, the group claimed that a section of senior county leaders reneged on a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) and generated an unacceptable list. &ldquo;During the recent Jubilee leaders meeting held at the Tea Research Foundation (TRF) and which was chaired by Governor Paul Chepkwony and MPs we agreed that consultations must be done before compilation of the proposed nominees list but the governor, senator and MPs, went behind our back,&rdquo; said Kapsoit ward nominee Paul Chirchir. &nbsp;Unacceptable situation The group spokesperson added that the bone of contention with the list was that some of the proposed nominees live &ldquo;only a few yards&rdquo; from the Jubilee ward flag bearers. &ldquo;It is not acceptable for someone who is literally the neighbour of the Jubilee flag bearer to be given the nomination slot at the county assembly. Such positions should have gone to other areas so that the residents can get fair representation,&rdquo; said Chirchir. ALSO READ: It's slippery path for the ruling Jubilee party He said a new list should be drawn which would be acceptable across the board. But a Jubilee parliamentary aspirant who requested anonymity pointed out that the ward hopefuls were yet to familiarise themselves with the law. &ldquo;The ward nominees&rsquo; complaints are just but hot air. The right of nomination is with the party not individuals. The list that was prepared contains the names of the people who applied to be nominated but the group now wants to sneak in the names of the people who did not place in their applications,&rdquo; he said. He urged Chirchir&rsquo;s group to be patient saying it would be only after the general election when the determination of the slots which would be available would known. &ldquo;The voting pattern might even change the equation and that is why patience is required because the number of the nomination slots available might change since the chances of independent candidates and other aspirants cannot be dismissed,&rdquo; said our source. Seventeen nominated MCAs were picked after the 2013 General Election. In Laikipia, sharp differences have emerged in Jubilee Party over a list of party nominees to the county assembly. ALSO READ: Ex-convict sells land to campaign for Uhuru in Kisumu Party county chairman Mwangi Githinji said key stakeholders, including him and others officials, were not involved or even consulted in short-listing the nominees whose names have been presented to the party headquarters. Left out He accused Governor Joshua Irungu Laikipia West Jubilee parliamentary nominees Patrick Mariru, Senate nominee John Kinyua and woman representative nominee Catherine Waruguru of handpicking the nominees without consulting other stakeholders. &ldquo;I have written to party secretary general Raphael Tuju because the list sent to the party is not satisfactory,&rdquo; Mr Githinji said. According to the official, Laikipia North parliamentary nominee Sarah Lekorere and her Laikipia East counterpart Amin Mohammed were also left out of the process of selecting the nominees. The list includes Cabinet secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri&rsquo;s personal assistant Patricia Muthoni, former Nyahururu deputy mayor Irene Wacuka, nominated MCA Daisy Maitho and her sister Marian Maitho. Mr Githinji said the nominees were not well distributed as some wards like Igwamiti and Nanyuki have more names compared to others. ALSO READ: Uhuru: My 10-Point Pledge to Kenya