&nbsp; The late James Miruka, one of the pioneer Town Clerks and former Nyando MP. He will be burried on June 10,2016 at Kano where dignitaries are expected. (Photo: Courtesy) The pioneer African town clerk and former Nyando MP James Miruka Owuor has died aged 80. Mr Owuor, who was appointed by the colonial masters to run the lakeside town of Kisumu, died from diabetes at Oasis Hospital on May 11. As family members and friends mourn his passing, what springs to the fore is his legendary work that made him one of the most powerful African administrators. Owuor&#39;s son, Fredrick, said besides being an administrator, his father was a farmer, businessman, politician and lawyer. He said the old man was diagnosed with diabetes and put on a special diet and medication in 1990. But in 2015, his health began to deteriorate. ALSO READ: Four killed by floods in Ilereti village, Marsabit County He developed wounds on his feet, which prevented him from walking, and gradually became wheelchair-bound. In 2016, his left leg was amputated. &quot;We have lost a great individual, an incredible jurist and a wonderful man with a strong sense of social justice who worked very hard to make his community a better place for all,&quot; said Fredrick. Free services Owuor also gave free legal services to the poor with sensitivity and passion, working for social justice and human rights causes. &quot;He has modelled every positive attribute a legal counsel or good leader should possess, including humility, graciousness, moral courage and a reputation for fairness,&quot; he said. Owuor served as the Law Society of Kenya Western region chairman for many years. He was an accomplished lawyer as well as a commissioner for oaths and notary public. ALSO READ: My wife &lsquo;died from fall in fight over volume of radio&rsquo; Among his school mates were Busia Senator Amos Wako, who was also his classmate, as was former Chief Justice Evan Gicheru, former Tanzania President Benjamin Mkapa and Justice John Khaminwa at Dar es Salaam University. They were First Class law graduates. He served as an MP for Nyando between 1988 and 1992. Owuor leaves behind six children, most of whom live and work in the US. He will buried on June 10.&nbsp;