Some affidavits and results used to challenge the outcome of ODM nominations may have been forgeries, Saturday Standard has learnt. As the dust settles on the outcomes of the disputes, it is emerging that the Political Parties Disputes Tribunals (PPDT) and the courts may have relied on doctored results and fake documents in making rulings that have ruined the political careers of several hopefuls. These fears came to light Friday after a presiding officer in the Muhoroni constituency ODM primaries filed a complaint with the police that an affidavit presented to an elections petition tribunal and the High Court bearing his name and signature was forged. Alloys Sombe has recorded a statement at Chemelil Police Station demanding investigations and arrest of a colleague, who he claims forged an affidavit in his name. That affidavit was presented at the High Court and was used to overturn MP James K&rsquo;Oyoo&rsquo;s nomination. Mr Sombe is said to have sworn the affidavit confirming that former area MP Ayiecho Olweny had actually defeated Mr K&rsquo;Oyoo. Friday, he said police have taken samples of his hand writings and signature specimen as part of the investigations. Prof Olweny was declared the ODM nominee by the courts. This was after the ODM appeals tribunal dismissed his case and ordered investigations against one of the witnesses, a primary school head teacher now being accused of authoring the forged affidavit. In an affidavit drawn by lawyer Pamela Olotch, Sombe says he was shocked to learn that two affidavits had been presented to court bearing his name and signature. ALSO READ: Chaos erupt over ODM nominees list He says the results annexed to the affidavit were not the actual results for the Miwani ward where he worked as a presiding officer. He claims the affidavits were sworn on his behalf by colleagues. Tip of the iceberg &ldquo;I have seen the results for the party primaries in Miwani ward and I wish to state that those results are a forgery,&rdquo; said Sombe in his affidavit. He wants those behind the alleged forgery of his signatures and election results to face criminal charges. Mr K&rsquo;Oyoo said he feared the problem in Muhoroni may be just a tip of the iceberg. &ldquo;Many politicians may have suffered because of forged documents.