It is now 50 days before we hold elections. While we are largely focused on the persistent rigging allegations against the IEBC, we are losing focus on a dangerous trend quietly being accepted as part of political lexicon. In 2007, Kenya saw the evil and painful consequences of inter-ethnic violence after the announcement of the disputed election results. While it was initially alleged the violence was a spontaneous reaction to the botched elections, the Kriegler and Waki reports clearly evidenced that most of this violence was pre-programmed. In the period leading to the elections 2007, unedited ethnic laden messages, threatening this or that other group with violence was common. Having never experienced large scale violence in Kenya&rsquo;s several elections, no one seems to have taken the matter seriously and everyone, including the security forces seemed to have been caught unawares. After these disastrous experiences, a season of sobriety followed where it was agreed that concerns about exclusion, which had been the core reason for the violence, required structural solutions, hence the new Constitution and its key component; devolution. Kenyans then seemed to have agreed that ethnic hate language would no longer be an acceptable component of our national conversation particularly during the election cycle. A body to oversee this matter, the National Cohesion Integration Commission was even set up to facilitate monitoring, investigation and prosecution of offenders. Even more critical, the entry of the ICC into Kenya and the indictment of several high profile Kenyans as the principal masterminds of the 2007 violence, meant that there was little harmful ethnic based messaging in the 2013 elections. However, those indictments were to produce a dark crowd over Kenya that has partly contributed to re-emergence of dangerous ethnic based messaging in the 2017 polls. In 2013, the Jubilee duo defined the ICC prosecutions as the principal mobilising issue. While one can sympathise with the Jubilee pairs&rsquo; concerns about their prosecution, one wonders whether it was necessary to throw the baby out with the bath water; totally delegitimising the ICC and thereby making it impossible for the ICC to give attention to Kenya in future. ALSO READ: Diversity and unity are our strengths, in the UK just as in Kenya The problem with neutering of the ICC is that while merger of the two major protagonists in the 2013 led to a season of quietness particularly in volatile Rift Valley, ethnic bashing in the political season remains a potent mobiliser in Kenya&rsquo;s elections. Without the threat of the ICC, many politicians believe they can get away with acts that would have otherwise landed them before the Court. Many of these politicians know the State cannot get to them. If in government, power cushions them. If in the opposition, threats of unrest in their political bases make it impossible to take action. This is where the ICC would have been useful, unrestrained as it is, by such considerations. Without the ICC threat, it is now increasingly popular to throw ethnic brickbats willy-nilly. It is now popular to attack whole populations with terms like &ldquo;Kikuyu greed&rdquo; or &ldquo;Luo this or the other&rdquo; with no national alarm and without consequence. Politicians can make threats about what will be done to this or that ethnic group after the elections and know that they can get away with it. You hear people loosely talk about &ldquo;having a Kenyan Rwanda&rdquo; especially in emotive social media. Many of us imagine that these messages have no impact but anyone who has carried out any studies on ethnic based conflicts knows that most start with innocuous conversations that politicians then use to mobilise for political ends. This seed of ethnic hatred must not be allowed to germinate in Kenya. Firstly, as our Constitution matures, we must continue to invest resolving the exclusion issues that informed ethnic polarization. There must be increased diversity in our national institutions devolution must be strengthened for more fiscal equity. This process of creating of a &ldquo;more perfect union&rdquo; will take time. In the meantime, despite ICC&rsquo;s absence, we must not pour fuel in the dying embers of ethnic polarisation, especially in this election season. -The writer is an advocate of the High Court of Kenya ALSO READ: Diversity and unity are our strengths, in the UK just as in Kenya