Political opponents National Super Alliance (NASA) and Jubilee engaged in war of words over manifesto contents. While NASA dismissed the Jubilee Party manifesto, terming it hollow and unable to convince Kenyans, Jubilee Party hit back, saying the opposition were promising unrealistic goals. The Opposition alliance in a statement said Jubilee was only unable to explain to Kenyans why it had not fulfilled the promises it made to them in the 2013 election blueprint, saying the document launched on Monday mirrored majority of the failed promises. Through Kisumu Senator Anyang Nyong&#39;o, NASA said Jubilee should not be believed on its promise to fix the economy, as they have in the past four and a half years overseen an administration that has ruined the little gains that had been made in economic recovery, through wanton corruption. &quot;Every sector is retrenching, from telecoms to banking to insurance. Look at the price of Unga; the steep inflation that has put most essentials out of reach for millions,&quot; said Nyong&#39;o. NASA said the Jubilee administration should be riding on its record while it has been in power to win the support of Kenyans, but unfortunately, they have had to craft another document after failing to deliver on their promises. ALSO READ: Raila: Why you can&rsquo;t trust Uhuru pledges &quot;When there is an incumbent government, everyone knows that its re-election will be determined by its record while in power. Jubilee&#39;s record of failure on virtually every front is in fact the easiest indictment of their manifesto!&quot; NASA stated. But Jubilee, through Secretary General Raphael Tuju and Deputy Secretary General David Murathe dismissed NASA&#39;s challenge, instead accusing them of giving unrealistic promises to Kenyans. Tuju rubbished NASA&#39;s claim that Jubilee had not met their pledges, saying &quot;they have chosen not to see even the obvious&quot;. &quot;Is it a fact that we have rolled out the largest infrastructure project in East and Central Africa in Standard Gauge Railways in just three years? Is it not true that we have been ranked second best investment destination in Africa?&quot; Tuju also cited the digital jobs Jubilee is offering the youth, explaining that they were training the first batch of 10,000 youths, who are part of the projected 750,000 targeted youth for the jobs. &quot;On this particular one, I cannot blame them because they do not understand digital matters,&quot; he said also citing electricity connectivity and laptop projects as some of the achievements made by Jubilee administration. ALSO READ: Uhuru, Ruto tear apart NASA manifesto in Kirinyaga campaigns