President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto Friday took their campaigns to Nyandarua, Laikipia and Nakuru counties where they sold their development agenda ahead of the August elections. The duo slammed the Opposition, accusing them of spearheading retrogressive politics by opposing every government project without considering their benefit to Kenyans. &ldquo;The role of the Opposition is not to oppose but to ensure there are checks and balances in the government. However, the current Opposition has a habit of opposing every move the government makes regardless of its benefits,&rdquo; said President Kenyatta. Achievements He outlined the Jubilee government&rsquo;s achievements for the last four years, urging people from Mt Kenya region to vote them back for them to complete the projects they have started. The President accused the Opposition of spreading propaganda that is likely to polarise the country. He the National Super Alliance (NASA) was only interested in getting to power without a clear agenda of what they would do for the country if elected. ALSO READ: Was Uhuru right to snub Raila in Nyeri during Madaraka Day? &ldquo;The opposition is concentrating only on 10 million Kenyans going by their 10-million-strong slogan. Jubilee is however interested in the welfare of 45 million Kenyans,&rdquo; said Uhuru. The President termed NASA&rsquo;s strategies as divisive on tribal and religious lines. Addressing residents of Ol Kalou in Nyandarua County, the duo exuded confidence that they would trounce the Opposition at the ballot based on their scorecard. &ldquo;Our development record speaks for itself. Everyone can see what we have done for the last four years and it is our hope that people will consider us for a second term,&rdquo; said President Kenyatta. Ruto urged the residents to vote in only Jubilee Party candidates for various seats. Your choice During the stop-overs the DP gave the nominees a chance to address the crowd, emphasising that their choice will be respected. &ldquo;We want soldiers to assist the President in all the houses. From the County Assembly, the Senate to the National Assembly, the government needs numbers to support its agenda,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: Was Uhuru right to snub Raila in Nyeri during Madaraka Day? &ldquo;The President and I decided to keep off from the nominations to ensure you elected the people of your choice. We urge you to vote for those in our party to strengthen the government.&rdquo; Those who accompanied the President and his deputy were Nyandarua governor candidate Francis Kimemia and Laikipia Governor Joshua Irungu, among others.