President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto Thursday accused Opposition presidential candidate&nbsp;RailaOdinga of betraying his claim to be the most steadfast defender of the 2010 Constitution. The Jubilee leaders said&nbsp;Raila&nbsp;and NASA were planning to slap the taxpayer with a Sh20 billion bill to fund a referendum to change the Constitution to create extra positions. &ldquo;A Constitution that was good for&nbsp;Raila&nbsp;a few years ago has now become faulty and he wants it changed. These are not the kind of leaders that Kenyans deserve,&rdquo; Uhuru said. Speaking at roadside rallies in Embu County, the two Jubilee leaders claimed NASA co-principals had proposed to mutilate the Constitution for their selfish gains. &ldquo;How can Odinga propose to damage a Constitution that he is on record as having said not a full stop should be added or removed when it was enacted?&rdquo; posed Uhuru at Kiritiri market in Mbeere South. In heightened attacks that the Jubilee leaders have launched on the Opposition&rsquo;s manifesto, Uhuru claimed up to Sh20 billion of scarce national resources could be used for &lsquo;unnecessary&rsquo; constitutional review if NASA took power. ALSO READ: What President Uhuru told NOCK &ldquo;It is also rather unfortunate because Kenyans are left wondering whether constitutional review will become a five-year cycle and in this case for the personal benefit of just four selfish leaders,&rdquo; added the President. For the second day in a row, the President also criticised NASA&rsquo;s plan to create a hybrid executive system of government to have a prime minister elected by Parliament and a president elected by voters. He also went ahead to criticise the Opposition for seeking to put the other two arms of the Government under the Eecutive, saying it was a past that Kenyans had rejected. &ldquo;Surely, the NASA leaders are playing with the minds of Kenyans,&rdquo; said the President. The Deputy President had set the ball rolling saying Jubilee would use the money that NASA proposes for constitutional reform to generate 300,000 jobs and roll out the paid internship for all middle-level college and university graduates next year. Ruto also said NASA leaders had no moral ground to claim they would fight corruption when their campaigns are funded by well-known corruption cartels, including those involved in Anglo Leasing scandal. Embu candidates from several competing parties, including Jubilee, joined the President&rsquo;s convoy that visited Karaba, Gategi, Gikuuru, Meka, Kiritiri, Siakago, Ishiara and Manyatta markets as well as Runyenjes and Embu town. ALSO READ: Man sues government for failing to block Raila from contesting the presidency Those in the convoy included Jubilee governorship candidate and incumbent Martin Wambora and his rivals Lenny Kivuti of Maendeleo Chap Chap and Kithinji Kiragu (PNU). Others were MPs Mutava Musyimi, Charles Njagagua and Rose Mitaru and senatorial candidate Njeru Ndwiga. Ruto recognised all those present at the first rally after landing at Karaba. The President promised a highway between Mwea Piai market through Karaba and Gategi to Meka on the Embu-Kitui road. He also promised to launch in week the Thiba Multipurpose Dam that will expand Mwea rice scheme and supply water to Mbeere in Embu. He also promised title deeds for area residents but urged local leaders to co-operate with the national government to roll out the programme. Uhuru was accompanied by National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi. ALSO READ: Jubilee and NASA in war over manifesto [email&#160;protected]