The Opposition alliance campaign team has dared the Jubilee government to arrest Opposition flag bearer Raila Odinga over alleged hate speech. The team lead by Siaya Senator James Orengo have warned against demands for Raila&#39;s arrest for allegedly inciting the Maasai community. On Sunday, National Assembly Leader of Majority Aden Duale demanded Raila&#39;s arrest over utterances he made in Narok County. But speaking at Asumbi Catholic Church in Homa Bay County Sunday, the NASA campaign team said the alliance would boycott the August 8 General Election if Raila was arrested. Mr Orengo argued that the allegations levelled against Raila were being perpetrated by his political enemies seeking to interfere with his presidential bid. Orengo told President Uhuru Kenyatta not to make any attempt to order Raila&#39;s arrest, adding that Mr Duale&#39;s comments could have come from the head of State. ALSO READ: Raila woos voters in Eastern, pledges to steer economy &quot;I am telling President Kenyatta not to make any attempt to arrest Raila. He should know that his father, Jomo Kenyatta, was saved from prison by Raila&#39;s father, Jaramogi Oginga Odinga,&quot; said Orengo. The senator argued that arresting Raila would mean arresting all the supporters of NASA because the alleged hate speech was aimed at thwarting his political popularity. NASA politicians &quot;If Raila is arrested, all of us as NASA politicians and our supporters will go to the police cell so we can also be arrested,&quot; added the senator. Orengo challenged the President and his deputy William Ruto to publish the full report of the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission (TJRC). He said publication of the report would enable Kenyans who suffered various injustices to have their grievances addressed. &quot;We should not divert the attention of Kenyans regarding this matter. Let the President speed up the publication of the TJRC report so Kenyans can start forgiving one another,&quot; he added. ALSO READ: Raila woos voters in Eastern, pledges to steer economy Homa Bay Woman Rep Gladys Wanga said Raila&#39;s arrest was being brought into the political limelight to blind Kenyans to the famine afflicting them. She said the Government had failed to provide Kenyans with food hence it was implicating Raila in hate speech to divert attention. &quot;Raila&#39;s comments were misunderstood by Jubilee. Let them provide Kenyans with maize flour and sugar instead of misleading them,&quot; said Ms Wanga.