NASA leader Raila Odinga says the journey to liberation is tough and longRaila expects the seven-judge bench of the Supreme Court to serve justice.He said the country is going through a difficult time after IEBC declared Uhuru Kenyatta the winner of the August 8 elections.Opposition leader Raila Odinga has maintained that the quest to liberate the country from oppression and misrule was still alive. Raila declared that never again will Kenyans accept an electoral fraud, asserting that the journey to &quot;Canaan&quot; was still &quot;very much on course&quot;. ALSO READ: Police disperse NASA MPs, supporters outside Supreme Court Raila spoke on Sunday at All Saints Cathedral in Nairobi after a church service, which he attended alongside his wife Ida and the National Super Alliance (NASA) co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang&#39;ula. He said although the journey towards liberation was long and tough, the country had resolved not to hold back in fighting against subversion of the will of the Kenyan people. &quot;I want to assure Kenyans that we shall get to Jerusalem. That nothing will prevent the will of the people of Kenya to liberate themselves from political oppression, corruption and misrule that affect their lives,&quot; said Raila. The former premier used the Biblical analogy of the Israelites who took years in the wilderness to get to the Promised Land, stating that it was just a matter of time before Kenyans move from the oppressive regime. &quot;The journey is still very much on course (but) people must remember there is never an easy journey. We are on our way to the City of Jerusalem, we are past Jericho,&quot; he added. The NASA leader said the country was going through a difficult time following the declaration of President Uhuru Kenyatta as the winner of the August 8. He said NASA team will not relent in fighting for electoral justice, adding that they expect the seven-judge bench of the Supreme Court to serve justice. ALSO READ: Hacking claims untrue, says IT guru