A blend of old and new hands will be deputising newly sworn-in governors in the North Rift. Despite widespread perception that most of them have been reduced to flower girls, the tenure of deputy governors are protected by the constitution. ALSO READ: We are behind you, Governors assure Josphat Nanok Still, the decision on whether to drop their deputies and pick new running mates proved to be a delicate process for many governors fighting to retain their seats. In Uasin Gishu, Governor Jackson Mandago, who was sworn in for a second term yesterday, has been vocal in his defence of&nbsp; his deputy, Daniel Chemno, assuring him he would keep his job after the August 8 poll. The gamble paid off. Mr Chemno, who is from the Keiyo community, was instrumental in Mandago&#39;s re-election, mobilising votes from his Keiyo community to give his boss a lead with 191,467 votes. In Trans Nzoia, Governor Patrick Khaemba was sworn in with his deputy, Stanley Tarus, for a second term in what he termed continuous good relations and the need for regional balance in the cosmopolitan county. Though re-elected for a second term, Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok had dropped his deputy, Peter Ekai, for a running mate and settled for 58-year-old technocrat, Peter Lotethiro Emuria. &quot;He is the right person to be my deputy as he is not new to the people of Turkana,&quot; he said. His Elgeyo Marakwet counterpart Alex Tolgos dropped Gabriel Lagat and opted for former county director of cooperatives, Wesley Rotich. &quot;He resonates well with the youth and was instrumental in regional balancing,&quot; said Tolgos. ALSO READ: NASA helped me win, says Mandago Again, the gamble worked, as the new deputies went on to help both governors retain their seats in the August 8 polls. West Pokot and Nandi will however be working with new county bosses and deputies. West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo will be working with Nicholas Atudonyang, a neurosurgeon, in a post previously held by Titus Lotee. Yulita Mitei becomes the only female deputy governor in the North Rift, after she was picked by the new Nandi Governor Stephen Sang. [Silah Koskei]&nbsp;