Nandi is enjoying a new identity as the county that made a deliberate decision to vote for some of the youngest leaders in last week&#39;s General Election. Governor-elect Stephen arap Sang, 32, is the youngest governor in the country, while Senator-elect Kiprotich Cherargey, 30, isalso be the youngest representative in the Senate. ALSO READ: Court rebukes polls agency for &lsquo;mockery and impunity&rsquo; Residents of Nandi also voted in several Members of the County Assembly who are in their 20s, such as Kilibwoni ward representative Cynthia Suge, 24, who becomes the youngest MCA in the country. The newly elected governor was only 28 when he joined the Senate in 2013 &mdash; again as the youngest elected member of the House. &quot;The age factor is a non-issue; I believe the people of Nandi believed in our agenda-oriented manifestos and our intentions to change the county for the better,&quot; Mr Sang said. He served on the Senate Legal Affairs and Human Rights Committee and also on the House Speaker&#39;s Panel. Sang is credited with sponsoring a number of bills, including the controversial County Development Boards Bill that was greatly opposed by governors. He has been a fierce critic of outgoing Governor Cleophas Lagat&#39;s administration and made several allegations of corruption. Mr Cherargey, popularly known as Mtetezi, led numerous street protests against Mr Lagat&#39;s administration, accusing him of graft and under-performance. He also wrote several petitions to the courts and the Senate. &quot;Nandi residents elected me because of my track record of defending them and their rights even when I was not in office,&quot; said Cherargey. And Ms Suge became an overnight celebrity after flooring Jubilee Party candidate Emmanuel Kipchumba. She said she missed out on the Jubilee nomination because she could not afford the amount aspirants were required to pay. &quot;I took a chance at being independent candidate and won after a difficult campaign,&quot; Suge says. Other young people who have been elected in Nandi County include 26-year-old Nancy Chemutai who was a news reporter and radio presenter. She floored the County Assembly majority leader Julius Menjo and three other male candidates in Kobujoi Ward. &quot;I had had enough of hearing complaints from the people and I decided to be part of the change&nbsp; by running for office,&rdquo; Chemutai said.