Unrest experienced in Mathare, Huruma, Kibera, Baba Dogo and RuarakaResidents accused GSU officers of invading the area with water cannons mixed with teargas.A man was on Thursday morning shot and injured in the leg as fresh protests erupted in Muslim area in Kawangware. Johnstone Amango said he was crossing the road where residents were protesting against the presidential elections results being streamed on the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) portal, when he was shot. &quot;The bullet hit me in the right leg, just below the knee, and came out through the other side,&quot; said Mr Amango, who was receiving medical treatment in a nearby clinic. The residents complained that General Service Unit (GSU) officers had invaded the area with water cannons mixed with teargas. &quot;They have been making rounds here since Wednesday. But today, when they noticed that people were congregating in groups, they sprayed the air with water cannons that make the eyes itch,&quot; said Stella Moraa, a resident. Ms Moraa, who was carrying a two-year-old child with red teary eyes, said the effects of the sprayed water was being felt inside the house. &quot;How can they splash the water inside our (residential) plots? I have had to get the child outside for some clean air but it is no better out here,&quot; she said. Police said the shooting happened when residents attacked a GSU vehicle that was reversing and veered into a ditch. ALSO READ: Here are major losers in the Kenya 2017 elections &quot;The GSU personnel were defending themselves after the protesters started to pelt the vehicle with stones. One person was injured but no injuries were reported on the side of police,&quot; said a policeman who was at the scene. Angry protestors More police officers were dispatched as backup amid concerns that the angry protesters would rob the officers who were stuck in the vehicle. In Area 56, a group of rioters clashed with police for few minutes as they demanded &quot;justice&quot; from the IEBC and one person was reportedly shot dead by police on Wednesday. Police reports show there were incidents of unrest in parts of Mathare, Huruma, Kibera, Baba Dogo, Kawangware, Ruaraka and along Naivasha Road as youths engaged police in running battles on Wednesday night. More anti-riot police were sent to contain the unrest amid fears of more death and destruction. ALSO READ: Student wins Igembe South parliamentary seat In Ruaraka, youths besieged a local Administration Police camp demanding an explanation from police there for the circumstances under which two protesters were killed. The group dispersed when police arrived and cordoned off the camp. They were protesting the earlier killing of two youths along Juja Road by police. Police said the two were attacking and robbing residents in the name of protesting the poll results.&nbsp;