Governor-elect Granton Samboja has picked former Permanent Secretary Philemon Mwaisaka as his chief of staff. &quot;The county needs a strong administrator. We are going to keep every talent in my administration,&quot; said the new governor as he confirmed Mwaisaka&#39;s appointment. ALSO READ: State grants Sh10 million to develop schools in Taita Taveta Mwaisaka has extensive administration experience after serving in the national government on the Constitution Implementation Commission (CIC). Soon after his appointment, Mwaisaka and deputy governor-elect Majala Mlagui met members of the assumption of office committee at the county headquarters in Wundanyi to plan Samboja&#39;s swearing in. Mwaisaka served in the public service for many years, 12 of which he was PS. He once served as the principal of Utalii College. The swearing in ceremony will be held at Mwatunge Primary School in Mwatate Town on August 21. Others present during the the meeting were the County Commissioner Kula Hache and County Secretary Peter Njumwa. Samboja beat seven other candidates to win the top seat. He garnered 40,764 votes against the incumbent John Mruttu who had 23,967 votes. Mruttu ran as an independent candidate after losing the ODM ticket to Wundanyi MP Thomas Mwadeghu, who wound up fourth with 20,436 votes. Senator Dan Mwazo emerged third with 22,706 votes.&nbsp; ALSO READ: Thief loses thumb in botched robbery in Taita Taveta The new governor called for tolerance between poll winners and losers and promised to work with all elected leaders, irrespective of their political affiliations, to develop the county. &quot;I would like to bring all leaders on board, including those who lost during the elections as well as former legislators so we can join hands and build our county,&quot; Samboja said yesterday. Several residents say they are happy with the appointment of Mwaisaka as&nbsp;chief county administrator. They termed him the right choice for the job based on experience in public administration.