Kiambu governor William Kabogo storms IEBC meeting,&nbsp;asks why some candidates were not invitedHe says the secret meeting could influence the elections outcomeA meeting convened by an Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) official yesterday ended in disarray when the area governor stormed the venue. Governor William Kabogo stormed the meeting at Kiambu Institute of Science and Technology asking why IEBC&#39;s County Returning Officer Hellen Sidi was meeting with some election candidates while leaving out others. The meeting was attended by Jubilee Party candidates from the county led by Ferdinand Waititu, who is contesting the governorship. The County Security Committee headed by County Commissioner Wilson Wanyanga and County Police Commander Adiel Nyange was also present. &quot;I want to know why you are meeting Jubilee candidates while leaving out independent candidates and others from the other parties,&quot; said Mr Kabogo. &quot;You are meeting a group led by my main competitor and I feel this will affect the credibility of the governor&#39;s election.&quot; Discuss queries But Ms Sidi denied that the meeting had been called to plan how to rig the elections, saying it was meant to discuss queries raised by Jubilee candidates on the deployment of agents. &quot;I want to set the set the record straight that this meeting was not meant to plan how to rig the elections. I met with the Jubilee team because they complained to the commission over the deployment of agents and observers to various polling stations in the county,&quot; said Sidi. ALSO READ: IEBC and political parties meet for election plans Waititu, on behalf of United for Kiambu, had raised concerns that a group accredited by IEBC as observers was serving the interests of one candidate. In a letter, he claimed the group was being strategically placed to try and influence the outcome of the elections. The letter also alleged that a number of security officers in the county had been compromised. [Josphat Thiong&#39;o and Kamau Maichuihie]&nbsp;