President Uhuru Kenyatta was among World leaders who witnessed the swearing in of Paul Kagame as he takes instruments of power in his 7-year third term as President of Rwanda in capital Kigali. President Kenyatta was accompanied by the First Lady Margaret in his first foreign trip after receiving certificate for his re-election from IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati a week ago. ALSO READ: Rwanda's Kagame sweeps presidential polls to win third term The colourful ceremony held at the Amahoro stadium saw over a dozen Heads of Sates and former leaders attend where only Mr Kagame was allowed to give a speech. In his address to the nation after swearing in the native Kinyarwanda language, President Museveni saluted Rwandans for their patriotism and for exercising their democratic right to vote in a peaceful and consultative fashion. &ldquo;There was no vote against anyone but every vote was a vote for Rwanda,&rdquo; he said in a speech that was intermittently interrupted by applause from the enthusiastic full house crowd at the stadium. He hailed the young Rwandan voters who were voting for the first time for their enthusiasm and passion. &ldquo;Even in my own house had a couple of such young voters who energised our campaign,&rdquo; he said referring to his children including his popular daughter Ange Kagame who was in attendance at the ceremony. The President also extended a warm hand to his two opponents at the poll Frank Abeneza of the Democratic Green party of Rwanda and independent Philippe Mpayimana, thanking them for reaching Rwandans directly with their messages. He took a swipe at the Western leaders in most of his 25 minute address for their criticism of Kagame&rsquo;s perceived hold on power. Many Western capitals have criticized President Kagame for allowing for repeal of the Constitution for the removal of term limits and alleged iron fist against opposition. ALSO READ: Rwanda goes to the polls The country&rsquo;s National Electoral Commission was also criticisied for disqualifying were Diane Shima Rwigara, Gilbert Mwenedata and Fred Sekikubo Barafinda from the presidential contest. &ldquo;They (West) demand that we replicate systems working for us with dogma whose own people are quickly losing faith in,&rdquo; he said. He said attacks on the country&rsquo;s character only makes her stronger provided she acted with decision and conviction. Adding that Africans need to do what is right for its people because the results are much better and the costs much cheaper. &ldquo;There is no single model for nation building. We are the best students of our own shortcomings,&rsquo; he proclaimed. Amidst song and dance, President shared with the guests of the lyrics a Kinyarwanda Gospel song adopted by Rwandans throughout the campaign, &ldquo;When we are fighting for a just cause, there is no reason to fear whatsoever because God is always on our side.&rdquo; He prided in Rwanda as having one of the most inclusive system in leadership and development saying nobody is left behind - be it a man or a woman. ALSO READ: Rwanda&rsquo;s risky bet on booming economic future Rwandan parliament has 60 per cent women representation. Mr Kagame is widely credited for stopping the 1994 genocide against the Tutsi in Rwanda after leading the rebel movement Rwanda Patriotic Front from the diaspora after nearly 1 million Tutsis and moderate Hutus and Twas had been killed. He took over the presidency in 2000 after Mr Pasteur Bizimungu resigned as president. This year he won the general election by a final tally of votes gave him 98.63 per cent of the votes in a country with a total population of 12 million.&nbsp;