“Why do you anticipate the end of me in politics? The future is bright; there is a lot to do. You live to fight another battle.” That was outgoing Kiambu Governor William Kabogo’s response to journalists when he was asked if his loss to Ferdinand Waitutu was the end of his political career. The question could be asked other governors and MPs who were edged out in the election. From the outset, Mr Kabogo’s fortunes appeared dim. After losing out to Mr Waititu in a contested nomination and bowing out, he made a complete turn-around and joined the race as an independent candidate. Nevertheless, the opinion polls were not kind to Kabogo and correctly predicted that he would lose to ‘Baba Yao’. His tenure as the first Kiambu governor has not been a bed of roses. For the past four-and-a-half years, the county chief has been embroiled in political wrangles pitting him against majority of the area MPs and MCAs. Despite all of them coming from the now defunct The National Alliance, the leaders rarely saw eye to eye. Political wilderness Some of the MPs who have been the governor’s fiercest critics include Alice Ng’ang’a (Thika) Kimani Ichungw’a (Kikuyu), Jude Njomo (Kiambu Town) and Kigo Njenga (Gatundu North). Ms Ng’ang’a and Mr Njenga, however, have followed Kabogo to the political wilderness after they failed to secure their seats. “I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the incoming MP of Thika Hon Patrick Wainana. It was a battle well fought,” said Nga’nga. But while Kabogo and Ng’ang’a were quick to acknowledge defeat, the likes of Meru Governor Peter Munya and Narc Kenya’s Martha Karua (Kirinyaga governorship candidate) did not and are seeking the Judiciary’s intervention. And if the opinion polls were harsh on Kabogo, they set up Munya for a shock as, despite being placed ahead, he fell to Kiraitu Murungi of Jubilee Party. For outgoing Senate deputy speaker Kembi Gitura, focus now shifts to his law firm after he lost to Jubilee’s Irungu Kang’ata in the Murang’a Senate race. “I am proud to have served the people of Murang’a diligently as their first senator. It is high time we focused on the future as the election is now behind us,” said Gitura. Karua’s failed bid for Kirinyaga county’s top seat could be headed for the courts after she was beaten by former devolution CS Anne Waiguru. “We disputed the counting and tallying and demanded a recount while the process was ongoing, which IEBC denied. As such we are exploring legal options to open the process to scrutiny in line with an open and transparent process, a fundamental requisite to free, fair and credible elections,” said Karua. Outgoing Mukurweini MP Kabando wa Kabando however conceded defeat to Antony Kiai and wished his constituents well. “Congratulations newly elected Nyeri leaders as you steer our great county. You can count on my prayers and support for you to succeed at all times,” he said. In Nyeri, County Woman Representative Priscilla Nyokabi also accepted the will of the people after she was trounced by Rahab Mukami. “I accept the results of the elections 2017 as the expression of the will of the people of Nyeri. I end my term on a high note as I did a lot of work and completed many projects. I wish Nyeri and the new leadership all the best,” she said. Laikipia East MP Anthony Mutahi also accepted defeat by Mohammed Amin. newsdesk@standardmedia.co.ke