Deputy President William Ruto urges elected leaders to start working, saying August elections were free and fairThe DP spoke just a day after the Supreme Court began hearing a petition by NASA challenging re-election of President Uhuru KenyattaHe said Jubilee would respect Supreme Court rulingDeputy President William Ruto has defended the outcome of the electoral process, saying Kenyans&rsquo; choice should be respected. Speaking in Kiborokwa, Soy Constituency, where he attended a church service at the local African Inland Church, Mr Ruto said the electoral process was credible and transparent and elected leaders should get down to work. ALSO READ: Judges to rule on access to IEBC servers, forms scrutiny &ldquo;The just-concluded electoral process gave the country a good reputation worldwide and portrayed Kenya as democratically mature. The process began by peaceful campaigns anchored on policies and real issues and the people have already made a choice that cannot be wished away,&rdquo; said Ruto. The DP said the nation needs to stick together and that citizens should not engage in activities that will undermine the democratic gains the country has achieved through the recent elections. &ldquo;I appreciate the decision by the Opposition who moved to the court to express their dissatisfaction with the presidential election results. However, the truth is that the people voted and selected their leaders. It is people who elect leaders and courts only determine cases,&rdquo; he added. The DP spoke just a day after the Supreme Court began hearing a petition by the National Super Alliance (NASA) challenging the election of President Uhuru Kenyatta. He said Jubilee Party would respect the ruling of the Supreme Court on the presidential petition. &ldquo;The people have made their choice to re-elect us and the court will make a ruling on the matter. I call on all Jubilee elected leaders to completely keep away from politicking and get to work so that we can deliver on the pledges that we made to the electorate and transform livelihoods,&rdquo; he said. The DP called on leaders and supporters from across the political divide to desist from activities and utterances that may ignite conflict. He was accompanied by Soy MP-elect Caleb Kositany and his Kapseret counterpart, Oscar Sudi. ALSO READ: Secession call sinister and a path we must never consider At Kabenes shopping centre, the DP thanked voters who overwhelmingly supported Jubilee. He added that the party&rsquo;s priority is to increase the enrolment of Kenyans to the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) scheme from six million to 13 million and provide cash transfer for persons over 70 years. He also reiterated the Government&rsquo;s commitment to provide free secondary education in public schools. [Michael Ollinga]