Wetang&#39;ula bodyguard dismissed from service, to face charges over Supreme Court altercationThe Policeman is said to have forced himself into courtroom while armed with pistolSimon Lonyang is expected to be charged in court with disturbing peace at the Supreme CourtA bodyguard attached to Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang&#39;ula is expected in court this morning to face charges of causing a disturbance outside the Supreme Court. Constable Simon Lonyang was detained at Central Police Station overnight on Monday before he was picked up by his seniors from the General Service Unit VIP protection unit for disciplinary process, popularly known as orderly room proceedings. ALSO READ: IEBC explains how it arrived at President Uhuru&rsquo;s win Central OCPD Harrison Thuku said Mr Lonyang was suspended from service and is expected to face the charges today. &quot;He was picked up by GSU personnel for the procedure of being dismissed from the service and we expect to see him in court probably tomorrow (today),&quot; he said. However, Deputy Inspector General of Police Joel Kitili clarified yesterday evening that Lonyang had not been sacked. He said disciplinary procedures had not been concluded. Lonyang is accused of causing a disturbance outside the Supreme Court on Monday afternoon when he scuffled with other police officers over his admission to the precincts while armed. According to an entry at Central Police Station, Lonyang created a disturbance by forcing himself into the court while armed. He allegedly defied orders by those manning the entrance, pushed them and even grabbed one of them by the collar of his uniform. He was later disarmed of his pistol, which had 14 bullets. But a witness said Lonyang never touched the officer as claimed. &quot;He was there to protect a VIP and all the other officers needed to tell him was how to handle himself. We had many other bodyguards, including those attached to the judges, who came in with their weapons. It is all political,&quot; said an officer, who added that the incident did not warrant such a harsh reaction. The incident prompted a bitter exchange of words between police, Mr Wetang&#39;ula and NASA leader Raila Odinga as the politicians confronted the officers heading the team manning the gate. ALSO READ: IEBC explains how it arrived at President Uhuru&rsquo;s win Wetang&#39;ula yesterday claimed his life was in danger following his bodyguard&#39;s arrest. He described Lonyang as an obedient and reliable officer who was not given an opportunity to explain the circumstances under which the incident happened. Wetangu&#39;la said only the National Police Service Commission was authorised to discipline the officer. He said he would defend his bodyguard in court.