&nbsp; NASA Presidential candidate Raila Odinga addresses Kitutu Chache residents on 1/08/2017(Photos by Sammy Omingo/Standard) National Super Alliance (NASA) leaders have now claimed the Jubilee administration was behind the murder of electoral agency ICT Manager Chris Msando. The Opposition leaders, while speaking in Kisii yesterday, linked the ICT manager&rsquo;s killing to a plot to rig next week&rsquo;s election. This is the first time the Opposition leaders are directly linking the Government to the murder of Mr Msando, whose body was found in a forest in Kikuyu, outside Nairobi. However, Msando&rsquo;s death and that of a woman, Maryanne Carol Ngumbu, whose bodies were dumped in the same scene, are still under police investigations and no motive has so far been given. NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga, who was present at the Kisii rally, did not directly link the Government to Msando&rsquo;s murder but condemned what he termed &ldquo;deteriorating security in the country&rdquo; ahead of the elections. Raila said he would not listen to threats and intimidation from Interior and Coordination Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang&rsquo;i on their move to protect their vote. ALSO READ: NASA wants foreign expert to guard KIEMS after Msando's killing NASA Presidential running mate Kalonzo Musyoka and co-principal Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula claimed Msando&rsquo;s murder was intended to create an avenue for the rigging of the general election. Kalonzo claimed Jubilee Party was sponsoring fake opinion polls to justify their rigging plans. &ldquo;Over 70 per cent of Kenyans support NASA taking over power from Jubilee next week, Jubilee leaders are afraid of this and that is why you are seeing all these strange activities just a few days to the elections,&rdquo; he said. Senator Wetang&rsquo;ula and his Siaya counterpart James Orengo warned that senior State officials were dying under Government watch. &ldquo;They will kill the few individuals but they will not kill all Kenyans. We are ready and confident that they will be sent home,&rdquo; said Wetang&rsquo;ula. Anything until ALSO READ: NASA wants foreign expert to guard KIEMS after Msando's killing Raila Odinga said he would not stop at anything until he wins the next week&rsquo;s elections. The former Premier, who addressed Kisii residents at the same venue where Jubilee&rsquo;s candidate President Uhuru Kenyatta spoke on Monday, said Jubilee feared for the worst defeat. &ldquo;We are out to teach them a lesson by winning the elections with a majority vote. Those who want to go back to Egypt should join Jubilee,&rdquo; said Raila. He said under his leadership, widows, orphans and single parents would receive funds from the State, adding NASA would allocate 45 per cent of the national share to counties.&nbsp;