PSC Chair Margaret Kobia insists that county governors must observe relevant laws when sacking staffShe has warned governors against arbitrary sackings&nbsp;as it might attract heavy legal costsKiraitu Murungi, Alfred Mutua,&nbsp;Muthomi Njuki are among governors who have suspended workers after&nbsp;they took&nbsp;officeThe government employer has warned county governments against the arbitrary sacking of employees, saying it would occasion hefty legal costs. The&nbsp;Public Service Commission (PSC) has warned that taxpayers&rsquo; money would not be used to pay legal costs arising from irregular sackings. ALSO READ: Six fiery ex-senators now take governors' hot seats The caution came on the back of threats by newly sworn in governors to dismiss county employees as punishment for, among others, campaigning for their rivals. PSC chairperson Margaret Kobia said sacking any worker without following due legal process will expose counties to litigation that would result in unnecessary legal costs and also destabilise human resources in the regions. Prof Kobia said all workers, including those on contract as casuals, have strict employment terms governed by the Constitution and the Employment Act which must be adhered to. &quot;Legal steps for terminating a worker on permanent and contract terms must be respected by all otherwise counties risk spending public funds in running court battles,&quot; said Kobia. But even as she issued the warning, a number of&nbsp;new county governors have already started firing employees hired by their predecessors. In Siaya County, chaos erupted when youths attempted to evict officials they alleged campaigned against Governor Cornel Rasanga. In Meru, Governor Kiraitu Murungi suspended all chief officers and ward and sub-county administrators and called for a thorough audit of county expenditure. In Uasin Gishu, Jackson Mandago warned those who did not support him to repent. ALSO READ: Governor Mutua suspends all 437 finance officers In Tharaka Nithi, Governor Muthomi Njuki suspended 1,061 workers &#39;to clean up the county payroll&#39;. Last week, Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua suspended 437 finance department officers. Kobia insists that county governors must observe relevant laws when sacking staff. &quot;Governors who want to sack employees who they perceive did not vote for them must show how they arrived at that decision because voting is a secret affair,&quot; she said. &quot;Governors who won their second terms and want to sack employees who they claim are not performers must also explain how they hired them in the first place,&quot; she added.