The&nbsp;leading camera&nbsp;phone&nbsp;brand&nbsp;OPPO has&nbsp;announced&nbsp;the&nbsp;launch&nbsp;of a new&nbsp;version&nbsp;of OPPO F3 in the&nbsp;Kenyan market that will be Packed with advanced technologies, innovative features and a new vibrant and sporty look design.&nbsp; As a symbol to commemorate the partnership with FC Barcelona and in order to stay true to the colors of the football club, the limited FC Barcelona OPPO F3 will feature an outstanding color with several identical features and gold insignias that fans are going to find very appealing on the device. OPPO F3 From the announcement made, F3 FC Barcelona Limited Edition feature a red color with OPPO and Barca logo on the back with a golden accent and reads &ldquo;FC Barcelona Official Partner&rdquo; at the bottom. The red color is apparently interpreted as a reflection of the spirit of the team, which became the pride of Barcelona. F3 FC Barcelona Limited Edition will be unveiled in the market next week, However, OPPO does not disclose the selling price and available units but gives a little leak that the units will be sold only in a limited time frame. Maybe only hundreds of units are available. Each device will also come together with FCB related special gift pack, yet to be disclosed during official release of the device. For the specifications and features, F3 FC Barcelona Limited Edition will still have the high resolution dual front camera, wide angle group selfie function, and super high specs. It seems F3 FC Barcelona Limited Edition could be a mandatory item that you wait for its presence next week.&nbsp; OPPO About OPPO OPPO is a camera phone brand enjoyed by young people around the world. For the last 10 years, OPPO has been focusing on manufacturing camera phones, while innovating mobile photography technology breakthroughs. OPPO started the era of selfie beautification, and was the first brand to launch smartphones with 5MP and 16MP front cameras. OPPO was also the first brand to introduce the motorized rotating camera, the Ultra HD feature and the 5x Dual Camera Zoom technology. OPPO&#39;s Selfie Expert F-series launched in 2016 drove a selfie trend in the Smartphone industry. &nbsp;