A boardroom is the &ldquo;thinking room&rdquo; in an office environment. This is the room where ideas are created, challenged, opposed and where only the best ideas survive for execution. But not enough attention is given to many boardrooms. Here are a few ideas on how to spruce up your boardroom: Desk Find a solid desk that represents solid ideas and steadfastness. A black table or deep brown table will be easy to accessorise. The seats should also be stable in either a matching colour or in a slight variance hue. For functionality and smooth running of the meeting, it is necessary to install good quality projectors, screens, flip charts with adequate markers and erasers so that the conference room remains professional. Creative companies such as advertising firms and art studios can get away with more colours in their boardrooms and should in fact showcase some of their creativity in the boardroom space. Seats can be upholstered in luminous or neon corporate colours and boardroom tables can be made from drift wood and have a novelty shape rather than the conventional rectangular or oval tables. Creativity should maintain a subtle yet professional ambience. Mural Boardrooms can be highly stressful as high targets are demanded from board members. Provide a mural or painting on the wall that becomes an object of rest and escape during boardroom pressures. This can be a city skyline, or a picture of rain forest that provides a soothing green calm ambience or even a map of the world to dare board members to explore markets in other nations. One big mural will usually be sufficient rather than several small ones unless they are a sequel. Alternatively, post the vision, mission and values of the organisation on the walls, but find a creative way to do it so that it is a pleasurable to read it. Accessorise As the look and feel of most boardrooms is often too masculine, it helps to soften the edges by using soft toned coloured curtains rather than shutters. Or use window sheers to soften the window edges where privacy is the not the primary objective. Place a centrepiece of flower arrangements on the table to also provide pleasure, especially for the women who will have made it to the boardroom or find an inspiring sculpture that can. Objects placed on the table should enable board members to still maintain eye contact and should not obstruct the view. Place glasses, mints and water in the middle of the table to refresh meeting attendees.