The United Kingdom and United States Wednesday welcomed the decision by the Opposition to challenge the outcome of the presidential election in court. UK High Commissioner Nic Hailey and US Ambassador Robert Godec described the decision by the National Super Alliance (NASA) as the right one to ensure the country continues to experience peace. “Since the elections were concluded and the results announced, we have always made it clear there is process through the Constitution for anyone unhappy with the outcome to challenge it in the Supreme Court,” said Mr Hailey, who described NASA’s decision as ‘very positive’. Hailey said his country has always been on the front line in supporting the Constitution and the electoral process. NASA’s decision comes just a day after the US President sent a congratulatory message to President Uhuru Kenyatta on his re-election. Godec said the message by President Donald Trump should not be misinterpreted as the process of petitioning the election result is not compete. “All we can do is wait for the court’s decision. So nobody should prejudge what outcome that will be,” said Godec. Assemble evidence Godec said NASA’s decision has reinforced the 2010 Constitution. “I have not seen the Opposition evidence yet. But I think it is important they assemble the evidence and bring it to court for the court to make a decision based on it and the rule of law and we see what happens,” said Godec. In the congratulatory message from the White House, Trump expressed concern over the demonstrations that have turned violent and urged those who have disputes to challenge the election’s outcome in accordance with the Kenyan Constitution. Leaders and the business community in Kisumu County also welcomed NASA’s decision. There were fears among business owners that the Opposition would resort to mass action to protest at the re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta, which it claims was rigged. Kisumu was hard hit by violent protests that erupted after IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati announced the presidential results. Kisumu Governor-elect Anyang’ Nyong’o and officials of the National Chamber of Commerce and Industry reiterated remarks by the NASA chief that moving to court presents the opportunity for facts on the extent to which electronic manipulation was used to influence the outcome of the presidential election.