&nbsp; Members of the public watch helplessly as fire rages buildings and business stalls in Kawangware area on 12th February, 2017. The cause of the fire was not immediately established More than a hundred families were rendered homeless by a late night fire in Kawangware yesterday. More than 100 structures were destroyed but there were no casualties reported. ALSO READ: Ngong Road expansion key to solving city traffic challenges The cause of the fire has not been established but residents suspect it could have been caused by an electrical fault. &quot;I was in my house when I heard my neighbour shouting for help and immediately went outside only to be met by the fire. We managed to evacuate her quickly but her house was burnt to the ground,&quot; said Mercy Auma, a resident. Mark Oloo, who helped to put out the fire, said the incident was unfortunate because the same area had been affected by unrest following the announcement of the presidential election results last Friday. He said the fire started in one of the houses before spreading to other structures. Mr Oloo hopes the Government and well wishers will help to rebuild the structures as many residents were left homeless following the fire. Major blow &quot;The fire was a major blow for us because families are now living in the cold. Some have been forced to move in with their relatives and friends in other parts of the city,&quot; he said. Nairobi police boss Japheth Koome said the cause of the fire was yet to be established and also urged residents to maintain peace. He praised the residents for their quick response. ALSO READ: Rachel Shebesh accepts defeat &quot;Most of the affected people are camping at a nearby school and church,&quot; said Mr Koome. In a span of approximately two months, police reports indicate that there have been more than 60 fires, especially in slum areas, which have resulted in the deaths of more than 10 people. Some 600 people have also been displaced. County Director of County Fire and Rescue Services, Brian Kisali, said electrical faults, cooking equipment, cigarettes, domestic violence, children playing and improvised lighting have been cited as the main causes of fire. [Josphat Thiongo]&nbsp;