Machakos County Government has received Sh800 million from the national government to upgrade Machakos Stadium. The upgrading of Machakos Stadium, to international standards, kicked off yesterday after the Government inked a contract with Governor Alfred Mutua and Sports Kenya boss Fred Muteti. ALSO READ: Governor Mutua in action from Facebook The works will include upgrading of stands, replacement of grass and laying of tartan track &mdash; all to be completed in three months ahead of the African Nations Championships in January 2018. Muteti said the works will be supervised by the county government, given its impeccable track record in completing projects on schedule. In 2014, Machakos Stadium hosted Council of East and Central Africa Football Associations (CECAFA) games after Governor Alfred Mutua&rsquo;s administration carried out an upgrade of the stadium in a record two months. Strict duration &ldquo;The 50,000-seater stadium will be face-lifted to international standards in a strict duration of three months. &ldquo;As Sports Kenya, we are committed to delivering state-of-the-art sports infrastructure facilities in order to improve and develop talent among our youth,&rdquo; said Muteti. He said the Government is in the process of refurbishing four other key stadiums across the country, including Nyayo, Kasarani, Kinoru Stadium in Meru as well as Kipchonge Keino in Eldoret town. Dr Mutua said his government is ready to supervise the upgrading, and urged the contractor to ensure the three-month target is achieved. ALSO READ: Alfred Mutua pledges 'first-world' economy after win He said his government had already started laying the Sh50 million tartan track in line with international athletics standards. &ldquo;We are also planning to expand services provided by the stadium by creating pools for other games,&rdquo; Dr Mutua said. Elsewhere, hundreds of farmers relying on the recently commissioned 58km Yatta Canal are up in arms against a proposal by a water company to introduce new rates. A stakeholders meeting convened by Tana Athi Water Services Board and attended by Machakos County Government representatives hit a dead-end after the farmers rejected the &ldquo;outrageous rates&rdquo; proposed by the water company.