NAIROBI, KENYA: Kenyan workers reported to their stations on Monday despite a boycott call by opposition leader Raila Odinga. However workers in the county offices of Migori, Homa Bay and Siaya stayed home. Other sectors such as banks and government offices&nbsp;were busy in the three counties. In Kisumu, workers in the informal sector, banks and government offices carried out their duties as usual with many saying the three-day standoff with police after results were announced left them broke. &ldquo;We badly need money to buy food and also for school fees as you know schools are just about to open,&rdquo; said a boda boda operator in Kisumu. &ldquo;We are not defying boycott call but as you know life has to move on.&rdquo; In areas such as Mombasa County workers also continued with their normal duties rising to work as early as 6am. ALSO READ: Three MPs retain seats in Taita Taveta County A spot check by Standard Digital also revealed that workers in Kakamega, Bungoma, Vihiga and Busia reported to work as expected despite the counties being under NASA governors. Kakamega is under Oparanya (ODM), in-coming Wycliffe Wangamati of Ford Kenya (Bungoma), Busia under Sospeter Ojaamong (ODM) and Vihiga under in-coming Wilbur Otichillo (ODM). In Kakamega, Oparanya warned that those who refuse to report to work will do so at their own risk. &quot;Everybody is at work. Those who will boycott duties will be dealt with for absconding duties. We are in Nairobi discussing the way forward for NASA,&quot; Mr Oparanya told Standard on phone. The governor is the ODM party deputy leader. Raila Odinga has disputed results of the August 8 presidential elections alleging that IEBC systems were hacked, thus compromising the outcome. This has created tension in the country especially in NASA strongholds. ALSO READ: Sonko: Raila Odinga has no authority to declare any day a holiday On Sunday, Raila called on Kenyan workers to boycott work until the Government withdraws KDF and police from the city. Speaking shortly after Raila told workers to boycott work, the National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC) said; &quot;Finding a job is not easy and those advising you to skip work will not hire you, so you should go to your workstations.&quot; &quot;It is in the best interest of the nation to go back to their lives and I am sure that there are other ways of resolving the disputes we have. We have a right to picket but that must be done peacefully,&quot; said chairman&nbsp;Francis ole Kaparo. Additional reporting by Anne Wangare