Merck &amp; Co Inc Chief Executive Kenneth Frazier resigned from U.S. President Donald Trump&#39;s American Manufacturing Council on Monday, saying he was taking a stand against intolerance and extremism. A gathering of hundreds of white nationalists in Virginia took a deadly turn on Saturday when a car plowed into a group of counter-protesters and killed at least one person. ALSO READ: Trump seeks order, discipline with new chief of staff Trump had said &quot;many sides&quot; were involved, drawing fire from across the political spectrum for not specifically denouncing the far right. &quot;America&#39;s leaders must honor our fundamental views by clearly rejecting expressions of hatred, bigotry and group supremacy, which run counter to the American ideal that all people are created equal,&quot; Frazier, who is African-American, said in a statement announcing his resignation. &quot;As CEO of Merck and as a matter of personal conscience, I feel a responsibility to take a stand against intolerance and extremism,&quot; he said. Trump responded in a tweet, now that &quot;Ken Frazier of Merck Pharma has resigned from President&#39;s Manufacturing Council, he will have more time to LOWER RIPOFF DRUG PRICES!&quot; Several executives from top U.S. companies have stepped down from a number of presidential advisory councils in protest to Trump policies. Tesla Inc CEO Elon Musk and Walt Disney Co CEO Robert Iger left the President&rsquo;s Strategic and Policy Forum, a business advisory group, in June, after Trump said he would withdraw from the Paris climate accord. Musk also left the manufacturing council. Former Uber Technologies Inc [UBER.UL] CEO Travis Kalanick quit the business advisory council in February amid pressure from activists and employees who opposed the administration&#39;s immigration policies. The White House said Sunday that Trump&#39;s remarks condemning violence at a white nationalist rally were meant to include the Ku Klux Klan and neo-Nazi groups. ALSO READ: China hits back at Trump criticism over North Korea Democrats and Republicans criticized Trump for waiting too long to address the violence - his first major domestic crisis as president - and for failing when he did speak out to explicitly condemn white-supremacist marchers who ignited the melee. Trump on Saturday initially denounced what he called &quot;this egregious display of hatred, bigotry and violence on many sides.&quot; On Sunday, however, the White House added: &quot;The president said very strongly in his statement yesterday that he condemns all forms of violence, bigotry, and hatred, and of course that includes white supremacists, KKK, neo-Nazi, and all extremist groups. He called for national unity and bringing all Americans together.&quot;