More than 70,000 residents can now smile after taps that have been dry for decades began flowing with clean water Thursday. The Government, through donor funding from Belgium, initiated a water project at a cost of Sh1.8 billion to end the acute water scarcity in Iten and Tambach towns and their environs. Lack of water in the two main towns has been blamed for the absence of investors seeking business in the region famed for producing world-acclaimed athletes. &quot;Investors have been shying away from Iten town because of an unreliable water supply but this has been eased by the project. We are optimistic it will spur economic growth,&quot; said County Water Executive Simon Kiplagat. Most of the county government employees preferred commuting daily to Eldoret town because of lack of decent housing and water in Iten town. Spatial plan ALSO READ: Water disconnection at Nakuru GK Prison takes toll The project coincided with the completion of a spatial plan for Iten town, which will include a sewerage plant. &quot;We have been facing many challenges with water provision and this project is a godsend. Investors can now come to the region because the water issue has been sorted out,&quot; said Mr Kiplagat. Belgium envoy to Kenya Roxane de Bilderling said her government had stepped up efforts to help in actualising the country&#39;s devolution dream by supporting community development projects. &quot;We shall contribute to the success of devolution through supporting development projects. We are also seeing possibilities of extending the project to reach more people,&quot; said the envoy during a recent tour of the project. John Chebet, a businessman in Iten town, said the project would turn Iten into a popular business destination in the region. &quot;Apart from providing clean piped water, the project will also offer jobs for thousands of residents, especially youths,&quot; said Mr Chebet. ALSO READ: Clear the air about plans to sell water firm; save city more agony [email&#160;protected]