Kiprop &lsquo;&rsquo;Buzeki&rdquo; is running as an independent his main opponent being the incumbent governor Jackson Mandago of the Jubilee Party. According to Buzeki, the manager Joseph Kemboi, was battered at around 2am when he was leaving his Elgon View home in Eldoret town. &quot;It is regrettable that violence is the choice of some individuals who do not have the interests of this country at heart. The group accosted Kemboi just outside the gate and bludgeoned him using buttons,&quot; he explained. Buzeki said they could not to take Kemboi to hospital because over 100 people had blocked the road and tried to storm into his residence. &quot;The group was attempting to force its way into my residence. We called the police but the crowd was too large for them. The situation was only contained after the General Service Unit (GSU) intervened. It is sad that an innocent servant is lying in Intensive Care Unit,&rdquo; said Buzeki. Buzeki said the matter was reported at the Eldoret Police who conducted investigations at the scene. He hoped the culprits would face the full force of law. &quot;The times of violent politics are gone, I encourage my supporters and the electorate in general, especially the youth, to maintain peace by casting their votes waiting calmly for the outcome. Whatever the outcome, we need to accept it and take the country forward by supporting the winners,&quot; Buzeki added. ALSO READ: IEBC sacks three returning officers over delays Elsewhere, Deputy President William Ruto voted at Kosachei Boarding Primary School in Tapsagoi Ward, Turbo Constituency, Uasin Gishu County. After voting he said: &ldquo;As democrats, Jubilee Party will respect the verdict of Kenyan voters,&rdquo; adding that he expected their competitors to do the same. He said whoever won was also a Kenyan and should be given space. Ruto walked from his home to the polling station and inspected his farm. In Elgeyo Marakwet police in Iten are holding an Elgeyo Marakwet County sports officer after being alerted that a man was dishing out money to voters at Kapteren polling station in Keiyo North Sub County. Voter bribery was also reported in Epke, Kapkoi and Anin among other areas. Presiding officer Philemon Kembo alerted police manning the centre who arrested the sports officer but voting went on smoothly at other stations in the county. Independent governorship candidate Moses Changwony, who is battling Jubilee&#39;s Alex Tolgos, condemned the incident and called on the IEBC to expeditiously deal with the matter. ALSO READ: IEBC sacks three returning officers over delays In&nbsp; Trans Nzoia Governor Patrick Khaemba (Ford Kenya) and his Jubilee competitor Maurice Bisau lauded the electoral body for a job well done noting that voter identification kits were well functioning. &quot;The process is smooth and we hope that it will be the same throughout the day,&quot; said Bisau. In Kesses, parliamentary aspirant Swarrup Mishra called the voting process &ldquo;extraordinary&rdquo;.&nbsp; Mishra is facing off with Cornelius Kogo of Kanu. In Eldoret, Buzeki had voted at Arap Moi primary School and praised IEBC for a smooth start. &quot;So far the standards adhered to by the IEBC are laudable, the environment is also conducive at the polling centres,&quot; said Buzeki. ALSO READ: PHOTOS: Kenyan presidential candidates cast their ballot