Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago was sworn in on Monday for a second term in officeMandago said his re-election will enable him complete ongoing projects in the countyMost speakers at the event focused on unity in the region and 2022 electionsSecurity, 2022 political succession and unity calls dominated speeches during the swearing in ceremony of Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago for his second term on Monday. The governor said he would work with other governors to ensure security prevails in the North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb) counties. ALSO READ: NASA helped me win, says Mandago Mandago also said during his first term, he had set a 10-year development plan and thanked residents of Uasin Gishu County for re-electing him. He said this would enable him complete all projects and better residents&#39; livelihoods. &quot;Pledges we made will be fulfilled in all the 30 wards of our county and all residents will be treated equally regardless of party affiliations or how they voted. &quot;My re-election will also enable us complete six sub-county hospitals that had been planned,&quot; said Mandago. The governor, who is also the chairman of Noreb, said all governors in the region would work as a team to ensure that insecurity, occasioned by cattle rustling, is a thing of the past. He added that cattle rustling menace had retarded development for years. &quot;As governors in North Rift, we will work together to wipe out the age-long traditional occupation of some, and security restored to allow residents engage in meaningful economic activities. &quot;We will ensure a conducive environment for investors and address youth unemployment,&quot; said Mandago who was accompanied by his wife Lucy and children. ALSO READ: Mandago: I would not have won without NASA endorsement The colourful swearing in ceremony was presided over by Justice Ruth Sitati at the Eldoret Sports Club. &nbsp;Priority areas Elected leaders who attended the ceremony included Woman Representative-elect Gladys Shollei, Senator-elect Margaret Kamar, local MPs-elect Oscar Sudi (Kapseret), Caleb Kositany (Soy), Swarup Mishra (Kesses), Silas Tiren (Moiben), Ruth Sitienei Rotich (Turbo) and William Chepkut (Ainabkoi). Others present were MPs-elect John Lodepe (Turkana Central), Benard Kipsengeret Koros (Sigowet/Soin), Uasin Gishu County Commissioner Abdi Hassan, Christian and Muslim clerics and thousands of residents. Mandago, who was also installed as an elder and decorated with leadership attire complete with Sambut (traditional gown), club and a stool, said his priority areas will be agriculture, health, education, water provision, environment conservation, affordable housing and cheap loans for youth and women. Shollei said she would support Mandago&#39;s quest of enhancing service delivery to the residents of Uasin Gishu County. &quot;Residents are greater than each one of us. It is my commitment to work in unity with all elected leaders to deliver services to residents and I will play my role in the National Assembly to better our county,&quot; said Shollei. ALSO READ: Buzeki concedes defeat, promises to support Mandago Mishra, Chepkut, Koros and prominent Uasin Gishu politician Jackson Kibor called for unity among all leaders and Kenyans, and said they would rally behind Deputy President William Ruto in 2022. Mandago also urged leaders and the electorate to forget the past now that electioneering is over. He also urged leaders in South Rift to reach out to former Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto and forge unity, which he said, is paramount as they eye 2022. [Titus Too]&nbsp;