The Kenya Ferry Services new ferry, &lsquo;MV Jambo&rsquo;, on board the offshore heavy transport ship, &lsquo;MV Eagle&rsquo;, on anchorage along the Kilindini channel soon after the ship arrived from Turkey, where it was built. [Gideon Maundu, Standard] The first of two new ferries procured at Sh2.1 billion has arrived at the port of Mombasa. Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia and his Tourism counterpart, Najib Balala, received the modern vessel, MV Jambo, which was transported from a Turkish shipyard aboard a semi-submersible heavy lift vessel, MV Eagle, which is owned by Norwegian firm OMT Company. &#39;&#39;The Mombasa port has a natural deep harbour that makes the offloading of this kind of bulkier cargo easier to discharge. We shall deploy tugs and use ship&#39;s lines to offload the ferry cargo after the ship submerges partly,&quot; Captain Yego Khadursky, loading master from OMT, told The Standard Thursday. Maritime standards The Kenya Maritime Authority flag and state port inspector, Captain Mbarak Zaunga, inspected the ferry cargo, as is mandatory with maritime standards. Mr Macharia, who went aboard the vessel, said the new ferry would complement efficient services across the busy Likoni channel. ALSO READ: Court stops testing of Sh1 billion ferry &#39;&#39;You all know we encountered legal disputes over purchase of these ferries. That is now behind us after the High Court made a ruling in our favour. The second ferry, which is under construction in Turkey, will be delivered to us later in November,&quot; Macharia said. He added that the modern ferry can carry up to 1,350 passengers and 60 vehicles and can make up to 40 trips in a day. Mr Balala said apart from ensuring that there are adequate ferries at the crossing channel, the tourism industry will be one of the biggest beneficiaries of the new ferries. Tourism industry &quot;The Jubilee administration, under President Uhuru Kenyatta, has made an undertaking to ensure that the masses who use the ferry services get the best from the service provider, hence the new acquisition,&quot; the CS said.&nbsp; ALSO READ: Balala joins those who want tourism levies scrapped