Siaya, Kenya: Three years ago, MOMENT, a programme encouraging spacing of children among families was introduced in Alego-Usonga Constituency of Siaya County. The programme was aimed at sensitising couples to have better spaced children and a number that they could comfortably care for. The involvement of different stakeholders is bearing fruit; some of the players brought on board in the programme include religious leaders, county health officials and community health workers and volunteers. And towards this end, the constituency has witnessed increased prevalence of contraceptives by 20 percent from two years ago as records show. &quot;Knowledge of community members (women in Alego-Usonga) on the HTSP key message &quot;Delay the first pregnancy until a girl is at least 18-years old&quot; increased from 52 per cent at baseline to 77 per cent at end-line,&quot; read the report on milestones made. Dubbed Mobilising for Maternal and Neonatal health through Birth Spacing and Advocacy (MOMENT), families are urged to ensure that they give birth to the number of children that they can comfortably care for. During a meeting held in Siaya recently to evaluate the project, it was clear that the project was well on course and families have started adhering to the message of spacing. Beverlyn Kedogo, of World Vision says that the success of the programme can be attributed to various players who were included in the project. &quot;The inclusion of community health volunteers, religious leaders, male champions and women in the project is the reason we can talk about success,&quot; says Kedogo. The religious community comprising both mainstream and independent denominations worked on a tool called scripture validation to ensure that the message of spacing is accepted from the pulpits. &nbsp; Kedogo says, &quot;We involved the religious community because of the reach it has on the general population and the influence religious leaders have on people.&quot; Healthy timing and spacing among other benefits allows children to breastfeed longer period, preferably two years which allows for better brain development and prevention of childhood diseases as well as better mother and child bonding. Kedogo says, &quot;It also significantly reduces stunting and lowers the risk of a mother dying due to birth complications.&quot; But this has not come without challenges. Prisca Duro, the reproductive health coordinator for Ugenya Sub-County said that due to increased demand for implants specifically, there is a dire need for counselling services for women so that they can make an informed choice. She says that women on implants have&nbsp;tendency of removing it before time elapses and this could be due to lack of information on choices available and proper preparation on the method. &quot;Out of those who have implants inserted, few keep it for the stipulated period and it is something that providers can work on,&quot; says Duro.