The family of a boy who was presumed dead and buried was shocked when he walked back home on Tuesday evening. Moses Fundi, 15, who is mentally challenged, disappeared from home in Majimbo village, Embu County, in mid-June. His family mounted a massive search for him and made passionate appeals on local radio stations. On July 29, the family received reports that the body of a boy Fundi&#39;s age had been found on the Embu-Mwea highway near Mururi village, Kirinyaga County. The family went to view the disfigured body at the Embu Teaching and Referral Hospital mortuary and concluded that it was that of their lost son. Burial date Thrown into mourning, the family went ahead to prepare for the funeral and buried the body at Karurina public cemetery on August 7, a day to the General Election. According to Fundi&#39;s mother, Joyce Njoka, the family could not afford DNA tests to ascertain whether indeed the body they were burying belonged to her son. The family had pleaded with the hospital to waive the mortuary bill and relied on wellwishers and politicians who were campaigning for various elective positions to raise funds to meet burial expenses. Three weeks later, Fundi knocked on his mother&#39;s door, to the consternation of family, friends, and neighbours, who had thought him dead and buried. &quot;Initially I was very shocked but later came to terms with it. His disappearance had agonised us a lot,&quot; said his mother. The disappearance and reappearance of Fundi has all the making of suspense movie. According to his mother, the boy left home on June 13, as was his routine, but did not return in the evening, leading to the search and eventual burial of the now unidentified body. She mourned her sons &#39;death&#39; for days. Not even in her wildest dreams did she imagine that her son was still alive. Long after the flowers on his grave had withered, someone called her on Tuesday morning, August 29, to say her son was seen in Karaba, about 50 kilometres away from home. Unbelieving family members were dispatched to establish if indeed the call was true or a hoax. It turned out to be true and Fundi was brought home on Tuesday night. Details about where he had been for more than three months and how he got there are scanty due to his mental challenges. His family is still struggling to come to terms with the development. There is joy and disbelief that they could mistake him for someone else. Now that their son is safely back home, another mystery has arisen - whose body did they bury three weeks ago? The family now wants the relevant authorities to help identify the body. After grieving her son for days, Fundi&#39;s mother is worried that another mother is grieving out there. &quot;We do not know whom we buried, we need help to identify him,&quot; she said. [email&#160;protected]