In Summary Githurai Suburb is situated 20km from city centre and straddles Thika Road It is a small market and the con men are well-known but no one will warn the potential victims. The Githurai 45 marketplace makes for good hunting grounds for petty thieves. On weekends, the slum market located on Thika Road is jam-packed as city residents jostle to shop after a busy week. Hundreds of church-goers who attend the many churches situated on the fringes of the busy market also add to the number of eager shoppers. They all are easy prey for the pickpockets who roam the market freely and mingle with the unsuspecting shoppers. With the noise, it is almost impossible to hear them rip open women&#39;s handbags or pick men&#39;s pockets. The place is not only a haven for pickpockets but also con men, who sell used wigs to unsuspecting women. The old wigs are wrapped in expensive brands of hair extensions and sold cheaply. Instead of the Sh1,300 price in cosmetic shops, many are lured by the negotiable Sh300. No warning According to Anita Nyaga, who runs a salon and cosmetics business in Githurai 44, no one ever takes the trouble to warn the would-be victims. &quot;Githurai is a very small marketplace and so the thieves are known by everyone. But instead of warning you, they wait until you are duped and start laughing at you,&quot; says Ms Nyaga. Nyaga has fallen prey to similar con games. She was duped into buying braids that usually cost Sh540 for much more attractive Sh150. She says she only realised she had been conned when people started motioning in her direction and giggling. One careful glance at what she had bought revealed that she had been conned. Sells shoes Monica Waringa, who sells shoes at the market, says she has witnessed many get conned but has never raised a finger. &quot;They are solely to blame for choosing to buy things from cons instead of going to real shops. What do you expect when you buy something that usually costs more than Sh1,000 for only Sh200?&quot; poses Ms Waringa. Samuel Gachomwa, a fruit vendor, echoes Waringa&#39;s sentiments and says that the cons are entitled to the kind of life they choose. &quot;I find no reason to interfere in someone&#39;s business by warning customers who are adults. Con men or not, I distance myself from what they do and mind my own business,&quot; says Mr Gachomwa. He reveals that most people who fall prey to the scams are young girls looking to buy nice cosmetic products at abnormally cheap prices. &quot;No one feels sorry for these gullible customers because they are paying for seeking cheap options,&quot; Waringa says.