The former senator, who vied as an independent candidate, trounced Godana Doyo. Isiolo Governor Mohammed Abdi Kuti, who was sworn into office yesterday, pledged to unite residents and end corruption and nepotism. ALSO READ: Growing up corrupt: A journey into adulthood in Kenya Dr Kuti was sworn in alongside his deputy Abdi Ibrahim Issa by Justice Mary Kasango at Isiolo Stadium. Kuti extended an olive branch to his rivals, saying competition during campaigns should not be misconstrued to mean enmity. &quot;In the coming weeks, I will convene a meeting of all elected leaders and those I competed against so we can chart the way forward to unite our people. Let us all put aside our differences and work together,&quot; he urged. The former senator, who vied as an independent candidate, garnered 22,669 votes to trounce the incumbent, Godana Doyo, who got 15,007 votes, and Jubilee Party&#39;s Abdul Bahari who managed 13,636. The ceremony was attended by Senator-elect Fatuma Dullo, Woman Representative-elect Rehema Dida, elected MPs Hassan Odha (Isiolo North) and Abdi Koropu (Isiolo South), and all elected MCAs. Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohammed, National Assembly Leader of Majority Aden Duale (Garissa Town MP-elect), Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok, who is also the Council of Governors chairman, and Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission chairman Eliud Wabukula also attended the event. &quot;Today will be the end of corruption in the county. My administration will have zero-tolerance for the vice, and there will also be no nepotism,&quot; said Kuti. Major communities ALSO READ: New county executives have their work cut out, they should deliver Noting that Isiolo is home to five major communities - Borana, Turkana, Meru, Samburu and Somali - the governor said he would find a way to bring all on board in his administration. &quot;I will be a governor for all the communities in the county. Employment and procurement will be delicately balanced across all the communities while service delivery will be taken to all locations.&quot;