&nbsp; President Uhuru Kenyatta casts his ballot at Mutomo Primary School in Kiambu County. He was accompanied by First Lady Margaret Kenyatta. [John N Muchucha, Standard] President Uhuru Kenyatta has reiterated that he will accept the will of the people and urged Kenyans to safeguard the country&rsquo;s stability. Speaking after casting his ballot at Mutomo Primary School in Gatundu South at 11.30 am yesterday, the President urged his competitors to concede defeat if they lose the election. &ldquo;In the event that my competitors lose, they should be ready to accept the will of the people. I am ready to accept the will of the Kenyan people,&rdquo; said Kenyatta. He appealed to leaders to rise to the occasion and preach peace and unity. &ldquo;Peace. Peace. Peace. I say peace because Kenya was here before and it will be here after today,&rdquo; said the President when asked about his message to Kenyans on election day. The Head of State exuded confidence that Kenyans will give&nbsp; Jubilee a second term to complete development projects. ALSO READ: President Uhuru calls for peace as Kenyans vote He was optimistic that he will reap big from his Kiambu County backyard, which has 1.17 million registered voters across 1,963 polling stations in 12 constituencies. &ldquo;We stand for harmony, unity, and progress of the country. I felt positive campaigning and telling Kenyans what my government has done and believe they will reflect on that and allow us to continue in the same direction,&rdquo; he added. The Head of State said there was no need for Kenyans to turn against one another due to their political inclinations. &ldquo;There is no need for fighting each other. There will be a Kenya even after the elections and therefore I call for peace, harmony, and unity among Kenyans,&rdquo; said the President. Kenyatta was accompanied by First Lady Margaret Kenyatta and their children, Ngina and Jomo. The First Lady braved the morning chill to queue at St Mary&rsquo;s Primary School to vote. ALSO READ: Raila: We have no faith in voters list Mama Ngina Kenyatta accompanied by other relatives also voted at the polling station. The Kiambu Jubilee Party governorship candidate Ferdinand Waititu, the incumbent, William Kabogo, and Gatundu South parliamentary seat aspirant Moses Kuria were also present. Mr Kabogo voted at St George&#39;s Primary School in Ruiru while his rival Mr Waititu cast his ballot at the Wangige market polling station. &ldquo;I will only concede defeat if the polls will be free, fair, and credible,&rdquo; said Kabogo. Eleswhere, Deputy President William Ruto said yesterday that Jubilee would respect the verdict of Kenyans. &ldquo;We are in a competition for the purpose of winning in a democratic society. We are all Kenyans and there is always a tomorrow for those who lose. We are ready to accept the verdict if we win or lose. Whoever wins democratically should be given an opportunity to serve and implement their manifesto,&rdquo; said Ruto. The DP noted that the country had had a peaceful campaign period and urged Kenyans to remain calm until the results are released. Ruto walked for about a kilometre from his Yegen Farm in Sugoi to Kosachei Boarding Primary School in Turbo constituency, where he voted 10.30am. He was accompanied by his wife Rachel, incumbent MPs Oscar Sudi (Kapseret) and Elisha Busienei (Turbo), and Kenya&rsquo;s ambassador to Pakistan, Julius Bittok. ALSO READ: How today&rsquo;s elections in Kenya stacks up against previous ones &ldquo;If voters decide otherwise, nitachukua nafasi yangu (I will take my place) as a farmer to care for my poultry farm, avocados and business because I will respect their decision,&rdquo; he said. He caused laughter when he told officials after being confirmed in the Biometric Voter Register that the picture used was &lsquo;a very old one&rsquo;.&nbsp; [Additional report by Titus Too]&nbsp;