Kenyans have anxiously been waiting for the results of the 2017 Presidential election to be announced by Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) since they went to General Election on Tuesday, August 8. Winners of some positions have already been declared at the county and constituency levels. Here is the rundown of the events of Friday, August 11. It is anticipated that the IEBC will declare the winner tonight. 10.50pm:Jubilee supporters in Eldoret and Nyeri celebrate Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s commanding win. 10.40pm: President-Elect Uhuru congratulates all who won various posts on NASA ticket and extends hand of friendship to Opposition leader Raila Odinga, says all Kenyans are winners. He added, &quot;I will ensure this country remains united and peaceful,&quot;&nbsp; President-elect Uhuru Kenyatta Uhuru Kenyatta&#39;s message to Raila Odinga after announcement of presidential results. ALSO READ: IEBC sets timelines for tally 10.25pm:President elect Uhuru Kenyatta thanks all Kenyans for re-electing him, urges Opposition to work together with the Government.&nbsp; He told all Kenyans to remain peaceful and shun violence, as Kenya is bigger than an individual. President Uhuru addressing the nation 10.20pm: President Uhuru and his deputy Ruto handed certificates by IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati. 10.15pm:IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati declares Uhuru Kenyatta as the presidential elect and William Ruto as the deputy president following the August 8 General Election.&nbsp; Uhuru declared as the president elect 9.35pm: Wafula Chebukati starts announcing presidential outcome for the candidates from all the counties. 9.30pm:&nbsp;Chebukati says voter turnout was 78.91 per cent, 15,073,662 out of 19, 611, 423 registered voters cast their ballots on August 8 General Election. ALSO READ: Nairobi City residents send half of the legislators home &nbsp; 9.00pm: IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati says election was free, fair and credibile, commends Kenyans for undertaking their civic duty. 8.58pm:&nbsp;There was a moment of silence for the slain IEBC ICT Manager Chris Msando who was murdered a few days to the election.&nbsp; The late Chris Msando Chebukati to witness signing of presidential results before they are announced. 7.30pm: NASA Chief Agent Musalia Mudavadi says IEBC did not involve them in their final decision. He adds that they will&nbsp;refuse to sign the presidential result papers, accusing IEBC of not addressing their complaints. NASA Deputy Chief Agent James Orengo says international observers should always vet&nbsp;election observers.&nbsp;He says going to court is not an option for NASA once presidential&nbsp;results are announced since they have been there before. The NASA side walks out of Bomas.&nbsp; NASA Chief Agent Musalia Mudavadi 6.40pm: IEBC CEO Ezra Chiloba calls a meeting with chief agents of all presidential candidates. He says the Chairman Wafula Chebukati will address the country at 7:30 pm.&nbsp; ALSO READ: What International observers say on Kenya&rsquo;s election disputes 5.45pm: President Uhuru Kenyatta arrives at the Kenyatta International Conference Centre (KICC), his deputy William Ruto is also present. President Uhuru Kenyatta arriving at KICC 4.30pm: NASA leaders demand access to IEBC servers for the public to scrutinise raw data and to establish whether the election management system was hacked. Siaya Senator-Elect James Orengo, NASA Deputy Chief Agent 3.50pm: IEBC CEO Ezra Chiloba confirmed only two Forms 34B are yet to be delivered after receiving 288 forms. They reached out to returning officers and appealed for patience. IEBC CEO Ezra Chiloba 2.20pm: Presidential candidates Abduba Dida, Joe Nyaga and Cyrus Jirongo conceded defeat saying they respect the will of the people. Abduba Dida speaking to journalists at the Bomas of Kenya on 11th August 2017. [WILBERFORCE OKWIRI, STANDARD] 2.00pm: Rory Stewart, United Kingdom&nbsp;Minister of State for International Development and Minister of State for Africa at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, applauded Kenyans for a successful election and urged politicians to work together for the sake of peace. UK Minister for Africa, Rory Stewart 1.25pm: NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka arrive at IEBC&rsquo;s National Tallying Centre at Bomas of Kenya. 12.40pm: IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati says 273 Forms 34B have been received, asks for patience as commission ensures results are accurately collated. ALSO READ: IEBC sets timelines for tally