IEBC seeks alternative means of transmitting election results in areas with no network coverageChairman Wafula Chebukati&nbsp;allays&nbsp;fears of delays and credibility concerns in the affected 11,155 affected polling stations.IEBC seeks alternative means of transmitting election results in areas with no network coverage Chairman Wafula Chebukati allays&nbsp;fears of delays and credibility concerns in the affected 11,155 affected polling stations. The electoral agency has assured the country it has put everything in place to deliver a foolproof general election today. Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) Chairman Wafula Chebulati in his last briefing on Monday allayed fears of delays and credibility concerns over poor network coverage in the 11,155 polling stations without 3G and 4G network. Mr Chebukati explained the commission had put in place 700 satellite units to ensure the transmission will be done electronically. At the same time, IEBC has appealed to Kenyans to be patient even in the event of delays in transmission. Chebukati said Kenya Power and the Communication of Authority of Kenya had assured of uninterrupted power supply and access to internet, which are critical to the process. ALSO READ: We promise you credible elections, says IEBC Meanwhile, at least 2,000 polling centres in Mt Kenya region are out of 3G and 4G network coverage to support transmission of data. In Murang&rsquo;a for instance, IEBC will have to seek alternative means of transmitting election results in at least 916 centres, which have insufficient network coverage. This is despite the county&rsquo;s proximity to Nairobi. Kirinyaga has 461 of its polling centres out of reach. Kakamega County IEBC Returning Officer Grace Rono yesterday said affected polling stations were in Likuyani and Lugari constituencies. In Taita Taveta County, elections manager Festus Mucheke ruled out the possibility of network hitches. [By Moses Nyamori, Allan Ngige, Nathan Ochung and Jane Mkamburi]&nbsp; ALSO READ: IEBC and political parties meet for election plans