Jubilee Party and the NASA coalition had their final official campaigns, two days to Tuesday&#39;s General Election. In an effort to consolidate their support and energise their supporters with closing submissions, the Jubilee party led by President Uhuru Kenyatta graced Afraha Stadium in Nakuru County, while their rivals led by NASA Presidential candidate, Raila Odinga, wooed voters from Uhuru Park, Nairobi. Jubilee&nbsp;had to change their location to Afraha after it emerged that NASA had already booked Uhuru Park for its final rally. IEBC had issued a stern warning against politicians extending their campaigns past 6pm on Saturday. &quot;The Committee&#39;s mandate remains valid until after the swearing-in of a president. The Commission will not hesitate to take action on anyone who violates the code of conduct during this period, IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati stated. &quot;We will summon any candidate in breach of the code of conduct and frame charges. We will conduct a hearing and public if found culpable,&quot; he added. Politicians are now barred from any form of campaigns including banners, branded t-shirts and rallies. ALSO READ: Workers want retirement age raised to 65 if NASA wins &nbsp; Below is a timeline of the events of the day as reported live. 5:58 PM - President Uhuru reiterates on having a peaceful election peaceful as Jubilee ends its campaigns at Afraha, Nakuru. President Uhuru Kenyatta addressing residents (Photo: Courtesy) 5:25 PM - Siaya Senator James Orengo alleges raid at NASA offices targeted polling agents list, American, Canadian and 2 Ghanian friends of the Opposition.&nbsp; The Senator is also alleging that Jubilee has a rigging plan. The plan will be executed by topping up votes in Jubilee strongholds and also using electronic means to manipulate the system.&nbsp; 5:38 PM - NASA end their campaigns. ALSO READ: Workers want retirement age raised to 65 if NASA wins &nbsp; (Photo: Courtesy) &nbsp; 5:20 PM - President Uhuru thanks thousands of residents for attending the last rally and exudes confidence that he will trounce NASA Presidential candidate Raila Odinga. Raila Odinga on the other hand cheered as he begins to address the thousands of followers in attendance.&nbsp; President Uhuru Kenyatta (left) and Raila Odinga (right) (Photo: Courtesy) &nbsp; Jubilee supporters welcoming President Uhuru (Photo: Courtesy) 5:00 PM - Wiper Leader and Raila Odinga&#39;s running mate Kalonzo Musyoka addressing the crowd as President Uhuru Kenyatta makes his way into the Afraha Stadium. President Uhuru Kenyatta making his entry into the Afraha Stadium (left) and Wiper Leader Kalonzo Musyoka (right) (Photo: Courtesy) &nbsp; 4:48 PM - Musalia Mudavadi thanks the huge crowd for attending and notes that the capacity at Uhuru Park exceeds the one that supported former President Mwai Kibaki in his bid to oust second President Daniel Arap Moi in 2002. ALSO READ: Major supermarkets to close on Election Day 4:43 PM - Nairobi Woman Representative candidate Esther Passaris exudes confidence that the will of the people will be exercised come 8th of August and Raila will become President. 4:28 PM -&nbsp;Hassan Joho accuses Uhuru, Ruto and police for masterminding a break-in into their offices in Westlands area last night. &nbsp; Nairobi Woman Representative candidate Esther Passaris (Photo: Courtesy) Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho (Photo: Courtesy) &nbsp; 4:23 PM - Nairobi Governor Dr Evans Kidero telling the people that Raila will be sworn in on Wednesday. He is also campaigning so as to defeat Jubilee&#39;s Senator Mike Sonko and Peter Kenneth. Nairobi Governor Dr Evans Kidero (Photo: Courtesy) 4:15 PM - NASA principals stand to recite the National Anthem. Moses Wetangula, Kalonzo Musyoka, Raila Odinga and Musalia Mudavadi (Photo: Courtesy) Hassan Joho, Raila Odinga, Musalia Mudavadi and Dr Evans Kidero (Photo: Courtesy) 4:00 PM- NASA principals led by Raila Odinga, Musalia Mudavadi make their entry into Uhuru Park Babu Owino (Photo: Courtesy) 3:57 PM- Babu Owino who is seeking Embakasi East MP seat through an ODM ticket is asking supporters to vote for NASA Presidential Candidate Raila Odinga in the upcoming polls. ALSO READ: Workers want retirement age raised to 65 if NASA wins &nbsp; 3:15 PM - Jubilee and NASA supporters (above) are anxiously waiting for their leaders to present the final campaign agenda ahead of Tuesday polls. Supporters displaying placards ahead of NASA rally (Photo: Courtesy) Supporters displaying placards ahead of NASA rally (Photo: Courtesy) NASA fans being entertained (Photo: Courtesy) &nbsp; 2:35 PM - Thousands of NASA supporters are being entertained as they wait for the NASA principals to make an entry at Uhuru Park.