Former Deputy Speaker Farah Maalim (left) welcomes Kisii Senator-elect Sam Ongeri for an orientation session in Parliament. Photo: Boniface Okendo, Standard As the new legislators line up to be sworn in, about a dozen of them are making a comeback to the august House after some time out in the cold. ALSO READ: Excitement as new young MPs enter parliament The legislators, whose political life was resuscitated on August 8, looked a happy lot, re-connecting with old friends at Wednesday&#39;s orientation session. But for others, like Kipipiri MP-elect Amos Kimunya, they will be hoping that their term does not end as it did when they were last in the House. Memories of his time in the tenth Parliament must be a chequered one for Kimunya who, while serving as Finance minister, faced a motion of no confidence moved by then Ikolomani MP Boni Khalwale. As he walks into the chambers to take his oath, Kimunya could still be hearing echoes from the past with Khalwale&#39;s thunderous shout, &quot;... Kimunya Must Go!&quot; It was this motion that arguably kicked off Kimunya&#39;s rapid fall from grace, leading to his bitter rejection at the ballot by the Kipipiri electorate. He had to eat his words and leave the office at Treasury Building after publicly vowing, &quot;I would rather die than resign.&quot; Maoka Maore has had to wait for 10 years to set foot in the House again after losing the seat in 2007. He had been in the House since 1992. The Igembe North MP-elect was among the star performers in the relatively weak opposition under Kanu, where President Uhuru Kenyatta was then the Official Leader of Opposition. Among other strong voices in a subdued opposition were current Deputy President William Ruto and National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi. Maore was shown the door, and stayed out for a decade, despite blowing the whistle on the Anglo Leasing scandal that shook retired President Mwai Kibaki&#39;s Narc administration. ALSO READ: Excitement as new young MPs enter parliament New Budalang&#39;i MP Raphael Wanjala has also bounced back after a 10-year hiatus. It is also a grand re-union for Jeremiah Kioni (Ndaragwa), Joshua Kutuny (Cherang&#39;any), Fred Kapondi (Mt Elgon), Charles Kilonzo (Yatta), and Peter Mwathi (Limuru) after five years in the cold. &quot;I learnt useful lessons after I failed to make it back to Parliament. My challenge now is to satisfy the huge expectations my constituents have after they re-elected me with an overwhelming majority,&quot; said Kapondi. Mr Kioni, who did not defend his seat in 2013 but instead chose to be the running-mate of ANC pPresidential candidate Musalia Mudavadi, said the break from politics gave him time to reflect on his life and gave him ample opportunity to be with his family. In the Senate, another one of the floored Kibaki generals, Peter Njeru Ndwiga, made a comeback to the House after 10 years in the cold. Ndwiga is the new Embu senator. Also in this House is Ephraim Maina, who makes a comeback as Nyeri senator after five years out, Sam Ongeri (Kisii), and Samuel Poghisio (West Pokot). [email&#160;protected] ALSO READ: MPs-elect meet over swearing-in boycott proposal