Outgoing Kajiado MP Moses Ole Sakuda (right) congratulates George Sunkuya after he was declared the winner on August 10. Peterson Githaiga, Standard Outgoing Kajiado West MP Moses ole Sakuda Wednesday admitted that he was defeated by one of his former students in last week&#39;s General Election. ALSO READ: Three MPs retain seats in Taita Taveta County Mr Sakuda, who was once a primary school teacher in Kajiado, applauded the incoming MP, George Sunkuyia, and promised to work with him. Mr Sunkuyia has been the MCA for Keekonyokie ward. This is the second time that the MP losing to his former student. He first tasted defeat in the Jubilee Party nominations after which he opted to vie as an independent candidate. &quot;Kajiado West has a new MP by the name of George Sunkuyia. Kajiado West people have decided at the ballot box and I respect their wishes,&quot; said Sakuda. &quot;I have passed the leadership baton to my former pupil as I prepare for more challenging responsibilities. Success is not success without a successor,&quot; he added. Sakuda, who is now referring to himself a kingmaker, also revealed that he was behind the rise of Woman Rep-elect Janet Teiyaa and Senator-elect Philip Mpaayei, both of Jubilee. &quot;I personally introduced Mpaayei to the people of Kajiado when I invited him and (Joseph) ole Lenku to my home in Kimuka,&quot; he said. &quot;As for Teiyaa, I went to her village in Ilkelorit when President Kenyatta tasked me with the job of finding a disabled woman to be nominated to Parliament by our party then, TNA.&quot; ALSO READ: Most offices open despite Raila&rsquo;s work boycott call Ms Teiyaa was subsequently nominated to Parliament in 2013 before she launched her bid for the Kajiado woman representative seat. &quot;If Sakuda can concede defeat, why can&#39;t NASA leader Raila Odinga do the same?&quot; posed Sakuda in reference to the Opposition&#39;s refusal to accept the presidential election results announced by the electoral commission last Friday. &quot;He is unnecessarily heightening tension in our country. If he can&#39;t concede defeat, then let him follow the Constitution he claims to champion and go to court.&quot; Sunkuyia, who was the Deputy Speaker of the county assembly, said the time had come for the two to put aside their political differences for the sake of development. &quot;It should also be remembered that Sakuda was my primary school teacher and has been the inspiration behind my political journey,&quot; he said. &quot;I am confident that I will serve the people of Kajiado West and that we shall scale higher heights of development.&quot; ALSO READ: Elections struck a fatal blow to our loyalty to the State