President-elect Uhuru Kenyatta has said Jubilee Party is now ready to file a response to the National Super Alliance election petition at Supreme Court. @UKenyatta on Twitter On Friday&nbsp;(August 19)&nbsp;NASA filed a 25,000 page petition challenging the declaration of President-elect Uhuru Kenyatta as winner of the just concluded General Election. Raila Odinga alleged that the electronic results transmission system was hacked to generate fake results.&nbsp; ALSO READ: Uhuru visit, Isiolo airport boost Meru hotel industry NASA also claims that the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) colluded with President Uhuru to deny them victory by allowing 14,000 defective returns from polling stations representing over seven million votes. Lawyers representing the electoral commission and the Opposition clashed on Monday (August 21) following claims that the latter filed evidence on the presidential election petition beyond the stipulated time. IEBC lawyer Kamau Karori wrote to the NASA team protesting that they were still filing evidence at the Supreme Court on Sunday, long past the Friday night deadline. NASA lawyer Paul Mwangi termed the protests by IEBC side shows, adding that as of yesterday they had not received any letter concerning the matter. He said they filed papers on Friday and that IEBC should concentrate on preparing its defence. The Supreme Court warned President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga to stop commenting on the presidential election petition before them in public. Defying directive could lead to contempt of court charges with a jail term of up to six months if found guilty. The warning came against the backdrop of increased public discussion on the petition, with both NASA and Jubilee Party politicians taking sides on the merits of the petition before it is heard by the judges. NASA MPs have also threatened to boycott the swearing-in ceremony accusing President Uhuru of defrauding Kenyans by calling Parliament sitting despite unresolved poll petition. ALSO READ: Supreme court gags Uhuru, Raila They argued that the re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta has been challenged at the Supreme Court and thus should not convene the Senate and the National Assembly&#39;s first sitting. In a statement signed by ODM Director of Elections, Junet Mohamed for NASA National Steering Committee, the opposition coalition said they will only take oath of office once the petition challenging Uhuru&#39;s reelection is determined. The seven-judge bench of the Supreme Court is expected to make a ruling on September 2.