There was drama on Friday morning after an unidentified man caused a stir as he demanded to be allowed entry into the Supreme Court, Nairobi to meet NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga. In a striped blue sweater and blue trousers, the seemingly deranged man disrupted live reporting by KTN&rsquo;s Duncan Khaemba with police officers in the vicinity taking no immediate action. ALSO READ: Who killed my father and why? Msando son&rsquo;s question stuns Raila &lsquo;Ata musiweke yeye hapa. Usipende upende nitaua na malaika wallahi bilai nitaua&hellip;eeh nitaua na malaika. Nitaua na malaika ukiona, wewe ngoja uliza Nkaissery nilimwambia vizuri &hellip;toka kwa Uhuru Kenyatta enda kwa Raila akua ameskia, hakuskia&rsquo; (Whether you like it or not I will kill with the angels. Ask Nkaisssery. I told him to leave Uhuru and Join Raila. He didn&rsquo;t listen. He didn&rsquo;t listen!&rdquo; he stressed. Interior Cabinet Secretary &nbsp;Nkaissery died a month ago. The furious man calmed down after police officers told him that they would take him to meet Mr Odinga. &nbsp; Video Odinga announced on Wednesday that NASA had resolved to challenge in court the making of a &lsquo;computer-generated leadership&rsquo;. ALSO READ: Uhuru preaches peace during visit to Kenyatta Market He disputed the declaration of President Uhuru Kenyatta as the winner with 54 per cent of the presidential vote against his 44 per cent, alleging the electronic results transmission system was hacked to generate fake results. &ldquo;We had said we will not go to court. But there was a clampdown&nbsp; on civil society and determination to silence all voices that could seek legal redress like AfriCOG and the Kenya Human Rights Commission.&nbsp; We have now decided to move to the Supreme Court and lay before the world the making of a computer-generated leadership,&rdquo; Raila said Wednesday. He was referring to a State crackdown on the two civil society groups, which have been accused of operating without valid registration and having illegal bank accounts. Raila added: &ldquo;Our decision to go to court constitutes a second chance for the Supreme Court. The court can use this chance to redeem itself, or, like in 2013, it can compound the problems we face as a country.&rdquo; In 2013, the Supreme Court rejected his petition challenging the election of Uhuru. Raila said by going to court, they were not legitimising &lsquo;misplaced&rsquo; calls by some observers for them to concede but are seeking to give those who braved the long queues in the morning chill and hot afternoon on election day. ALSO READ: Bring it on, Jubilee leaders tell NASA