National Super Alliance (NASA) leaders ended their campaigns on Saturday with a clarion call to supporters to turn out in large numbers to vote for change. NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga, his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka and co-principals Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula implored Kenyans to give them a chance to transform the country. Addressing a rally at Uhuru Park in Nairobi yesterday, the Opposition chiefs exuded confidence of winning. They called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to concede defeat on Tuesday should he lose. The leaders also used the event, attended by thousands of supporters and international observers led by former South African President Thabo Mbeki, to ask the electoral commission to conduct free, fair and credible elections. The enthusiastic supporters interrupted speakers with chants of &lsquo;Uhuru Must Go.&rsquo;&nbsp; Kalonzo termed the rally historic, likening it to 2002 when Raila stood on the same podium and declared &ldquo;Kibaki Tosha&rdquo;. At one time, Raila had to stop his speech to dance to the music of Tanzanian musician Ali Kiba, who entertained the crowd that started arriving at the venue as early as 10am when the NASA co-principals were addressing rallies in Meru and Ukambani. ALSO READ: Sift the chaff from campaign talk and elect deserving leaders Unlike previous rallies where the leaders took time to address their supporters, yesterday&rsquo;s event was more of pomp and colour, punctuated with short speeches and entertainment. Lost lucrative deals &ldquo;I Raila Amolo Odinga, I&rsquo;m tired of Uhuru. We are tired of Uhuru. My team and I are ready for a face-off with my brother Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto. When I said there will be a Tsunami, there were doubting Thomases but the Tsunami is coming on Tuesday. We are ready for change. The youth of this country have led a revolution and its coming to take effect on August 8,&rdquo; Raila declared. The NASA presidential candidate said Kenya has lost lucrative deals such as the Sh350 billion project for the construction of the Kenya-Uganda pipeline that could have created 45,000 jobs after Uganda opted to use the Tanzania route. &ldquo;Kenya cannot progress if Uhuru and Ruto retain power. They have presided over the theft of more than Sh350 billion under their regime,&rdquo; Raila said citing the SGR and pipeline projects whose cost, he said, had been inflated. Kalonzo said it&rsquo;s only a Raila presidency that could guarantee good governance. He announced that single mothers and youths will have better opportunities under NASA. ALSO READ: Sift the chaff from campaign talk and elect deserving leaders &ldquo;Today, Uhuru Park is gearing for change; we can smell victory. I gave Raila a chance, Wetang&rsquo;ula did, Mudavadi did, and Governor Isaac Ruto did. If you truly love this country and stand for true change, give Raila a chance to lead this country.&rdquo; Kalonzo warned IEBC against mischief, saying the commissioners should learn from the fate of their predecessors who were bundled out of office for bungling elections. &ldquo;Chebukati and Chiloba. Wewe, wewe, wewe Chiloba (Ezra), if you try to steal Raila&rsquo;s victory, you will be cursed. The best price to pay is to ensure Kenyans conduct their affairs in a peaceful manner as stipulated in the Constitution.&rdquo; Kalonzo added: &ldquo;We have come to Uhuru Park to cleanse ourselves from rubbish, insults and lies Jubilee peddled against us yesterday. Jubilee should accept defeat on August 8. It claims that it will win by 3 million votes. This is the exact opposite&rdquo; Mudavadi said yesterday&rsquo;s rally eclipsed 2002 when the opposition united to defeat Kanu, and it was a testimony that change was inevitable. &ldquo;Today begins the NASA exodus and we must all rise and vote to send Jubilee home. The victory we are taking about is at the door.&rdquo; Wetang&rsquo;ula said NASA has support of majority Kenyans and asked voters to help write the history of Kenya with Raila as the fifth President. &ldquo;IEBC commissioners must do their job right. We chased the Isaack Hassan team and this gave them a chance. On August 8, we do not want to hear again about vote stealing. No ghost voters and no stories of Raila&rsquo;s votes have been given out to others,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: Questions over daring raid at NASA offices Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and his Nairobi counterpart Evans Kidero urged IEBC and security forces to remain neutral and serve Kenyans, not Jubilee. &ldquo;I want to tell them that those computers you took from the tallying centre, we shall hold you to account for the incident be it NIS, police or military. I also want to tell the good cops and military out there to shun the few errant officers who want to misuse them and remain true servants of the people,&rdquo; Joho said. Siaya Senator James Orengo exuded confidence that the Wafula Chebukati-led IEBC will deliver a credible poll but warned that there are people in the commission who are playing bad games and that was why ICT manager Chris Msando was eliminated. &ldquo;We know Jubilee&rsquo;s plans to top up 10 to 15 votes in the 16,500 polling stations in Jubilee strongholds. They also plan to top up through the IEBC to rig polls. Jubilee has set one server to periodically add one and two polling stations, every one hour to rig polls. Alex Kioni an ICT security expert has been appointed to replace Msando,&rdquo; Orengo said.