The latest survey shows the Mombasa, Machakos and Meru governors would easily retain their seats if elections were held today.&nbsp;NASA&#39;s Raila Odinga most popular candidate in Mombasa as Jubilee&#39;s Uhuru leads in Meru&nbsp; The governors of Mombasa, Machakos and Meru counties would retain their seats if elections were held today, according to the latest survey. In a report, Trends and Insights for Africa (TIFA) shows Alfred Mutua (Machakos) of Maendeleo Chap Chap (MCC) party would win with 59 per cent against his main rival, Wavinya Ndeti of Wiper party, who would get 35 per cent. In Mombasa, Governor Hassan Joho would carry the day with 74 per cent of voters supporting him. Jubilee Party candidate Suleiman Shahbal would get 12 per cent. Wiper Secretary General Hassan Omar, who is also the Mombasa senator, would come a distant third with six per cent. Only two per cent would cast votes in favour of Awiti Bolo of Vibrant Democratic Party. At least seven per cent of voters in Mombasa are undecided. The survey places Meru Governor Peter Munya at 47 per cent, ahead of his closest challenger, Senator Kiraitu Murungi of Jubilee, who has 39 per cent. Mr Munya is defending his seat on a Party of National Unity ticket. ALSO READ: Heavy weights face oblivion in bruising election battle In the Machakos senatorial race, 58 per cent of the voters are undecided on who to vote for. The county has six candidates seeking to be senator. Boniface Kabaka of Chama Cha Uzalendo (CCU) leads the pack with 17 per cent followed by People&#39;s Patriotic Party (PPP) candidate Mutua Katuku who has 12 per cent. The MCC candidate, Carlos Kioko, has five per cent while Wiper&#39;s Musyoka Kala has two per cent, same as Jubilee&#39;s Winfred Mutua. Kalonzo Musyoka&#39;s popularity seems to have gone down drastically and this has been attributed partly to the decision by Senator Johnstone Muthama to opt out of the race to concentrate on the National Super Alliance (NASA) presidential campaigns. The survey shows that in the race for Machakos woman representative, Wiper&#39;s Joyce Kasimi is leading with 31 per cent. The incumbent, Susan Musyoka, who is running as an independent candidate, is second with 16 per cent, ahead of Agnes Kavindu of Jubilee with 14 per cent. Francisca Mutinda of MCC has a one per cent chance, same as Rita Ndunge. The undecided voters stand at 29 per cent. In Mombasa, 67 per cent would vote for NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga while President Uhuru Kenyatta would get only 27 per cent of the votes. ALSO READ: Raila supports Munya as he pleads his case in Mt Kenya At least eight per cent of the voters in Mombasa are undecided. The survey shows all other parties would share one per cent of the votes. In the race for Mombasa senator, Mohamed Faki of Orange Democratic Movement leads his rivals with 43 per cent. Hazel Katana of Jubilee is second with nine per cent. Mwaguya Hamisi (independent) has six per cent against Jabesse Oduor&#39;s (independent) four per cent, Yasser Bajaber (Ford Kenya) who has three per cent, Wiper&#39;s Lawrence Kisilu (two per cent) and independent candidate Mohammed Abbass (also two per cent). Some 28 per cent of the voters are still undecided. In Meru, youthful Kinoti Gitobu would get only five per cent of the governorship votes while former presidential advisor on education Kilemi Mwiria (MCC) is trailing with a three per cent rating. Jubilee is still the most popular party in Meru, where Uhuru has an approval rating of 79 per cent while NASA&#39;s Raila is at 19 per cent. Meru Woman Representative Florence Kajuju of Jubilee is still the candidate to beat, with an approval rating of 45 per cent. Her closest challenger, Kawira Mwangaza (independent), has 38 per cent approval while Elizabeth Kailemia of PNU has six per cent. ALSO READ: Munya: I am not using public resources to campaign The survey was conducted between July 20-24 and involved at least 549 respondents, with a margin of error of plus or negative four.&nbsp;