IEBC County Returning Officer Uasin Gishu, Jacktone Nyonje, hands over certificate to Governor Jackson Mandago after he won the gubernatorial seat at the Eldoret Polytechnic. Looking on are his deputy Daniel Chemno, his wife Lucy Mandago and their children on August 11, 2017. [Photo: Peter Ochieng, Standard] Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago has praised the National Super Alliance (NASA) saying the coalition played a key role in his re-election in the recent General Election. ALSO READ: Revealed Raila's options Mandago, who garnered 191,467 votes against his competitor Bundotich Zedekiah Kiprop &#39;Buzeki&#39; who got 148,121 votes, said the endorsement by the Opposition gave him a boost. &quot;I want to congratulate the NASA team for saying &#39;Mandago Tibim&#39;. Had they not said so, I would not have won the elections. Their supporters should relax because in my next term, I will cater for the needs of all irrespective of whether you voted for me or not,&quot; said Mandago in his first press briefing after being declared the winner. NASA co-principals, Kalonzo Musyoka, Senator Moses Wetang&#39;ula, Governor Isaac Ruto and NASA national campaign chairman Musalia Mudavadi endorsed Mandago. In turn, Mandago endorsed an ODM candidate for the Langas Ward in Uasin Gishu County. The move was viewed by locals as a strategy to seek more numbers Governor Mandago has said he will work closely with the losers in forming a government without considering party affiliations. He used the platform to laud communities living in the region for what he termed as continued cohesion during and after the polls. &quot;We have seen peace prevail in the region against the expectations of many who always said that political temperatures were high, they failed to realise that Uasin Gishu has the most competitive politics but citizens are also cautious because they are aware of the effects of not being peaceful,&quot; he said. Before the polls, the region was under the spotlight by security apparatus over concerns that it was a hotspot. ALSO READ: Workers ignore NASA job boycott calls He further cautioned public servants against laxity saying underperformance by some county staff almost cost him the election. &quot;For those who feel they are not ready to work, they better leave us early enough. In my last tenure, I will not let anyone undermine my quest to have a legacy,&quot; explained. The county boss lauded the electoral body for conducting credible polls and challenged the officials to ensure that the process is fully electronic as focus shifts to 2022 polls. Buzeki conceded the defeat and called on the governor to concentrate on uniting the communities in the region.