While elections in Kenya come once every five years, the sad reality is that they come with a lot of acrimony and heightened tension. For some, aspirants especially, it is a matter of life and death, literally. Many Kenyans dread the campaign period for its violent nature. It is also during this time that politicians are known to unscrupulously use their immense resources to either buy voters or intimidate opponents. Cases have even been reported where some aspirants are killed long before Election Day to create space for others. But more disadvantaged are women who dare to tread on grounds long considered a male preserve. The recent deaths of a parliamentary aspirant in Tiaty constituency, Baringo County, and an MCA aspirant in Komarock, Nairobi County, are painful reminders of how low we are capable of going. While the police and the National Cohesion and Integration Commission are expected to make everybody toe the line, the starting point should be with respective political parties. &nbsp;Where parties fail to instil discipline in their members, they place unnecessary strain on law enforcement agencies. The prospect of party nominations has brought out the worst in some Jubilee aspirants. Physical fights have been reported in some areas. The saving grace is the party&rsquo;s resolve not to let matters get out of hand. Jubilee has taken bold steps to haul those involved in the skirmishes before the disciplinary committee. The Orange Democratic Movement party has also warned that it will not condone any form of violence or harassment against women aspirants. ALSO READ: Opinion: Allow IEBC to execute its mandate freely That should be the way to go to ensure decorum and respect for other people&rsquo;s democratic rights. It would send a strong message that parties stand for something if troublemakers were expressly barred from contesting by party disciplinary organs. &nbsp;But law enforcers must equally play their part to ensure troublemakers face the law and account for their actions. &nbsp;