Security personnel have been deployed to Kerio Valley to guard all learning institutions following increased banditry. Several centres, including Kombases Primary School, were closed after their playgrounds turned into battlefields. A month ago, heavily armed bandits invaded St Mary&#39;s Mon Secondary School and shot at learners before stealing over 65 head of cattle, which parents had brought as school &#39;fees&#39;. Pupils of Kombases have been relocated up the escarpment and are now sharing classrooms with their counterparts at Kilangata Primary School. &quot;We are two schools in one, with two head teachers, two sets of pupils and teachers, all in one facility. There is so much confusion in managing the schools but we are doing our best since we have a shortage of six classrooms, limited water and only three pit latrines for both the staff and over 500 pupils,&quot; said Kilangata head master Abraham Koitile. He said they were forced to erect makeshift classrooms using locally available materials such as twigs just to offer learners temporary shelter. ALSO READ: Gideon Moi: Attacks recipe for genocide Deputy President William Ruto on Monday ordered that all learning institutions in the region be put under armed security until the cattle rustling menace in the area is addressed. &quot;We do not want learning to be distributed or learners and teachers hurt. Each learning institution will be guarded around the clock,&quot; said the DP at Chesongoch Catholic Church in Marakwet East Sub-county. Mr Ruto said the Government would provide 5,000 bags of assorted food items to help feed learners and starving families. &quot;We shall also pay schools fees for children whose parents have fallen victim to cattle rustling and we have directed county commissioner Fredrick Ndambuki to list all the families whose livestock were stolen for compensation,&quot; he said. The DP was accompanied by Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet, Rift Valley regional coordinator Wanyama Musiambo, Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos, Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, MPs Kangogo Bowen (Marakwet East), William Kisang (Marakwet West), Jackson Kiptanui (Keiyo South) and Susan Chebet (Women Representative).