President Uhuru Kenyatta travelled to Somalia on Saturday to meet Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) troops serving under the African Union Mission in Somalia at Dhobley military camp. The Commander-in-Chief, dressed in military fatigue, met KDF and thanked them for their sacrifice and service to their motherland. The President told the soldiers that Kenya will be forever indebted to them for neutralizing the threat of Al-Shabaab. &ldquo;Your being here in Somalia has saved many lives, and for that Kenyans will forever be indebted to you. Your presence here has at least freed people of the fear of Al Shabaab,&rdquo; President Kenyatta said. He added: &ldquo;We have revived our tourism sector thanks to you for securing our country.&rdquo; The Dhobley Military Camp is the headquarters of the AMISOM, a nerve centre and a log base for the UN. ALSO READ: President Uhuru says government on track in delivering to Kenyans &ldquo;We are talking to the new Somali Government to emphasize to them the importance of building their military so that you can go back home. That is our exit strategy,&rdquo; President Kenyatta said. The visit came four days after the State of the Nation address in which the President paid glowing tribute to Kenyan men and women in uniform for their commitment and dedication to service to secure their country. The President spent the day hearing first-hand on how the troops were working to secure Kenya as well as the challenges they faced on a day-to-day basis. He had lunch with the troops and also examined the equipment they are using in the battlefield. Chief of Defence Forces Gen. Samson Mwathethe &ndash; who accompanied President Kenyatta on the Somalia visit &ndash;said there was no better way for a Head of State to motivate a soldier than to spend time with them in the warzone. &ldquo;Your visit here today as the Commander-in-Chief has boosted the morale of these soldiers,&rdquo; Gen. Mwathethe said, while thanking President Kenyatta. ALSO READ: Car bomb kills at least 13 in Somali capital: police, medics