Show us drama, comedy, horror, action and we&rsquo;ll show you Showmax! What is Showmax anyway? Hold on tight or HODOR as Game of Thrones fans would say because we are about to boggle your mind! Showmax is Africa&rsquo;s largest entertainment collection that offers the best of local and international shows including shows from Nollywood, the coolest kids&rsquo; shows and documentaries. You get what you want, whenever you want it at the click of a button! To get Showmax, all you need are three things; a Showmax subscription, internet to stream or download shows and a compatible device. Showmax has a selection of two packages to choose from &ndash; Showmax Select goes for KES 330 PM, less than a cup of coffee and a croissant we bet! It offers a customized selection of over 3, 000 popular local and international shows for you to enjoy on the go. Showmax Premium that goes for KES 880 PM offers access to more than 20, 000 of the best local and international series episodes, shows and movies including shows from Nollywood. To subscribe for your Showmax account all you need is your email and phone number; you can pay for your preferred package via Lipa Na MPESA by dialing *422*2#! You can either use Wi-Fi from your preferred ISP or data bundles to stream or download shows especially when you are watching shows on the go from your device. The bandwidth capping feature on the Showmax website is located in the settings section after you press play allows you to control not only the video quality but the amount of data you want to use per hour. So many shows, so little time? No problem. You can download up to 25 episodes of your favorite shows using your free Showmax app on your Android or iOS device which includes tablets to watch offline later. Downloading Suits in the office and watching it at home in your pajamas has never sounded this good right? Your guilty pleasure can also easily be downloading shows whenever you get access to free Wi-Fi, we won&rsquo;t judge! This means that you can save on data whenever you go for road trips or to shagz by downloading your shows prior and watching them offline. The best news is that you can enjoy Showmax on two separate devices meaning while you binge on your favorite series, the kids can have a wild adventure with the coolest kids&rsquo; shows in town. Not to worry, the kids profile allows you to control what your kids watch at any given time. Got older kids? There is always something for them too! You can get the chance to enjoy a Showmax experience for free with a 14 days trial when you sign up with credit card as your payment method. All you have to do is sign up, enter your payment details and you are good to go! Don&#39;t have a credit card? You get one full month free when you buy three months with Mpesa. With Showmax, there&#39;s no contract - cancel and subscribe any time. For more queries and daily updates on exciting shows catch Showmax on FB/SHOWMAXKE and on twitter @ShowmaxKenya. Showmax Kenya FAQ: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I7nXqPSg4Rw&amp;t=13s Sold? Sign up now on https://www.showmax.com/eng/&nbsp;