NAIROBI, KENYA: President Uhuru Kenyatta officially opened the refurbished Senate chamber and the Sh8billion new wing of Parliament Buildings. The president affirmed that the refurbishment of the old chamber built before independence was a true demonstration of his government&#39;s true commitment towards devolution. He said his desire was to facilitate the senators&#39; work by ensuring they undertake their legislator work in a conducive environment. &quot;Senators are supposed to discuss matters concerning counties in a conducive environment. Democracy is expensive but it is our responsibility to ensure it flourishes,&quot; said the President after he graced the occasion. The President, accompanied by the Deputy President William Ruto, Speakers Ekwee Ethuro (Senate) and Justin Muturi (National Assembly), Senate clerk Jeremiah Nyegenye, Senators, members of the Parliament Service Commission (PSC) and Senate staff witnessed the exercise. The chamber was first built in 1952. After the 2013 general election, which created the bicameral parliament, senators have been holding their plenary in three different buildings while refurbishment works was underway at the old chamber. They used the Kenya International Conventional Centre (KICC), then proceeded to County Hall after it was refurbished and finally settled at the old chamber. Speaker Ethuro commended President Kenyatta for gracing the occasion, arguing that opening the chamber demonstrates his commitment to devolution. &quot;The president has repeatedly affirmed his promise to implement devolution as provided for in the Constitution. His opening of the Chamber now shows his government recognizes the good work the Senate does to defend the interests of counties,&quot; said the Speaker. He continued, &quot;It is indeed an honour. The Senate plays an important role is ensuring counties deliver in their mandate and are adequately resourced.&quot; On his part Speaker Muturi, who is also the chairperson of PSC noted that although the Senators briefly experienced discomfort as the rehabilitation works were underway, the commission is also committed to ensure they are facilitated well.