The Kwale County Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) members will now use queueing method of voting or mlolongo system to elect party nominees during the upcoming primaries which are scheduled on April 11. This was arrived at after a delegation of MPs, officials and aspirants from Kwale met ODM&#39;s executive Director Mr Odour Ong&#39;wen and other National Election Board (NEB) members at Red Cross center in Ukunda on Monday. The MPs included Hassan Mwanyoha (Matuga) and Zuleikha Hassan (nominated) while party officials included Nicholas Zani (Vice chair) and Omar Boga (Secretary General) among others. Among the demands that the group had asked Nairobi office was on the voting criteria and carrying the primaries on same date with Mombasa and Kilifi to avoid rigging and voter importation. Zani said that secret balloting system might be abused as it was in the party nominations held in 2013. &quot;During the primaries there were no enough ballot papers where we resorted to using exercise books and at the end it was a sham. Logistically it will be hard to do secret ballot as those who will provide vehicles to ferry the results you know them and they might manipulate,&quot; said Zani. ALSO READ: Trio seeking ODM ticket to unseat coalition partner in Kanduyi He said that during last elections when he vied as Kwale senator some of his agents were either bought out or were not fully briefed. The meeting further passed that both Returning and Presiding Officers shall be chosen by aspirants on a pro rata basis where each of the 20 wards will have five polling stations to make a total of 100 for the entire county. &quot;On the issue of aspirants who registered after the known deadline, Hon Mwanyoha, ODM Kwale Party Leader, shall follow up on,&quot; he said in a statement. On his part Ong&#39;wen noted that his meeting with Party officials and aspirants was an act of good faith, which must be exercised at all times. &quot;My position doesn&#39;t allow me to take sides, if the position is not supported by the Party&#39;s Constitution. For the record, these are what I told the meeting: We are committed to free, fair and transparent elections, nobody has been given a nomination certificate nor am I aware of a list of so-called preferred candidates,&quot; he said in a statement.