Kisumu Senator Anyang&rsquo; Nyong&rsquo;o and Nyando MP Fred Outa have disclosed plans for a joint campaign strategy for the August 8 polls, even as party primaries remain a headache for them. Prof Nyong&rsquo;o is seeking to dethrone Governor Jack Ranguma, while Mr Outa wants to occupy the Senate seat. The two are working on a horse-trading deal to consolidate votes in both Kisumu rural and Kisumu town and force a battle in areas with swing voters. In what appears a repeat of 2013 negotiated democracy, Outa, whose opponents in the Senate race are yet to hit the ground, will be counting on Nyong&rsquo;o to help him get votes in the former Kisumu rural and parts of Kisumu West, as he helps the governor hopeful to make inroads in Ranguma&rsquo;s Nyando backyard Outa told the Standard on Sunday that a joint campaign strategy was in the offing and would be announced soon. &ldquo;We have formed a formidable team with a united secretariat and a common agenda for the people of Kisumu,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: Why MP Millie Odhiambo isn't sitting pretty in Mbita race It is anticipated that the unveiling will come before the primaries, which for ODM aspirants in this region is the game-changer: whoever wins the ticket is nearly assured of victory in the elections. And all aspirants for the governor&rsquo;s seat seeking the Orange party ticket are confident of securing it. Outa, a two-time MP, faces 2013 Senate aspirant Ochola Ogoda and former women representative hopeful Rose Kisia who has quit as County Tourism Executive. Nyong&rsquo;o faces several opponents, including the incumbent, Deputy Governor Ruth Odinga, Hezron McObewa and Asaka Nyangara. Outa was the sponsor of the 2013 caucus that spearheaded a deal, which saw Kisumu East, Kisumu West and Seme get the Senate seat, as the larger Nyando took the governor&rsquo;s position. But five years later, Outa and Nyong&rsquo;o are bitter men, saying that Ranguma has failed and should go home. In the past few weeks, the two leaders have engaged in a war of words with Ranguma over the governor&rsquo;s alleged failure to meet his campaign promises, claiming credit for national government projects and &ldquo;clanism&rdquo; in distribution of county positions and resources. But Ranguma has accused his opponents of playing politics and having no plan for the people of Kisumu. &ldquo;That my opponents lack a clear vision for Kisumu County is evident since their agenda is Ranguma, their slogan is Ranguma this, Ranguma that. Apart from slander, innuendos and propaganda, what can they point out to have done or are planning to do for wananchi?&rdquo; the governor said. ALSO READ: Why MP Millie Odhiambo isn't sitting pretty in Mbita race