Wiper Party Leader Kalonzo Musyoka has&nbsp;dismissed reports that he is set bolt out of the National Super Alliance (NASA). The former Vice President maintained that he would battle it out with his co-principals Raila Odinga, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang&#39;ula for the NASA presidential ticket. He said he is the only one who can beat President Uhuru Kenyatta. And Wiper loyalists vowed to ensure he clinches the ticket ahead of the August 8 General Election. &quot;At 63 years old why would I delay to be President? And if you know that by putting Kalonzo there (flag bearer) we will send Jubilee home, then why delay?&quot; Kalonzo asked. Claims have been rife that Kalonzo could run separately if he fails to fly the coalition&#39;s ticket. ALSO READ: Election jitters to affect firms' hiring of new staff Kalonzo made reference to the political pact he had with Raila, saying he had been betrayed in the past and promised not to be gullible again. &quot;I am not leaving NASA and this time round there will be basic rules. We will have to make it clear on who takes what and not to have some papers that could later be disowned. I have learnt my mistakes. I have been too trusting,&quot; he said. Kalonzo spoke against the backdrop of reports that the four party leaders will identify one of them through consensus. This is after it emerged the 12-member National Coordinating Committee (NCC) had failed to agree after some Wiper members insisted they consider the 2013 ODM-Wiper agreement legitimate. The party took a swipe at coalition partners for labelling Kalonzo a mole. &quot;There is nothing wrong with Kalonzo running for President. Kalonzo cannot be an ally when he supports you but a mole when he says he want to run. They have called him all sorts of names. All parties can declare their candidates and start campaigning for their candidates,&quot; said Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar, who is also the party Secretary General. &quot;We are in NASA but we demand respect from the other parties because we know nobody can make it alone. Our enemies are not in ODM, Ford People or ANC.&quot; ALSO READ: Opinon: Let's be bold and embrace change Former National Assembly deputy speaker Farah Maalim said they would ensure Kalonzo wins but in the event that another candidate is picked they will still remain in NASA and support that candidate. &nbsp;