&nbsp; President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to tour western region for three days next week with local leaders expecting development projects to cushion Jubilee&#39;s chance to win the region. During his tour the Head of State, who will be accompanied by his deputy William Ruto, is scheduled to launch several development projects and also drum up support for Jubilee Party. His visit is also seen as trying to wrestle away the vote-rich western region from the Opposition. In 2013, western region overwhelmingly voted for ODM leader Raila Odinga. President Uhuru is expected to commission tarmacking of Musanda-Ugunja road, light up street lights at Luanda market in Vihiga County among other projects. ALSO READ: Why president Uhuru will skip Kuria during Nyanza tour He will tour Kakamega, Bungoma, Vihiga and Busia counties. Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali, who is Jubilee point man in the county, confirmed that the President will be in the region starting March 28. &quot;It is confirmed we will be hosting the Head of State next week. He will be around to launch projects and also campaign for Jubilee,&quot; said Washiali. Meanwhile, youths in Kakamega County have welcomed President Uhuru Kenyatta to tour the region to seek votes. The youths led by Hamisi Waswa said Jubilee government has delivered almost all projects it promised residents of Kakamega. &ldquo;We welcome the Head of State in this region. We have benefited from Jubilee government as a community. They promised to tarmac roads and they have delivered it among other projects we have witnessed from the government,&rdquo; said Waswa. He lauded the DP Ruto for his frequent visits in the region saying they have yielded fruits, with the region benefitting from the Government. ALSO READ: Punish those who lied to the President &quot;DP&#39;s visits in the region have made the community benefit a lot from the Government. We appreciate him for the role he is playing to ensure the community is considered for development projects,&quot; he said. &quot;Through his visits and promises, the region especially Kakamega County has seen three roads being upgraded to bitumen status for the first time since independence and at least four constituencies have benefitted from the technical training institutes courtesy of Jubilee,&quot; he said. Waswa said Jubilee will win majority of seats in the region perceived to be Opposition stronghold. During his tour last year, President Uhuru commissioned tarmacking of Lurambi-Navakholo-Musikoma and Ibokolo-Shianda-Malaha roads in Kakamega County which are under construction.