Senate Majority Leader Prof Kithure Kindiki has told opposition co-principal Raila Odinga that he will not get any support from Tharaka Nithi County in his quest for Presidency. This is after the National Super Alliance toured his backyard last week in a series of events to popularize the coalition in Mount Kenya East counties, Meru and Tharaka Nithi. Raila who addressed a public meeting at Gatunga market, the home market of Senator Kindiki, promised to develop the region by initiating dam and irrigation projects and further offer state jobs to the residents. He was accompanied by Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Ford Kenya&rsquo;s Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula. During the tour he also welcomed Senator Kithure Kindiki&#39;s elder brother, Prof Isiaih Kindiki to the coalition as his campaign coordinator in the region. However, speaking at Gatunga market on Sunday, Prof Kindiki said it was insincere for the former Prime Minister to claim to develop the region now yet he did nothing when he was in power during the grand coalition government. ALSO READ: Meru contest largely a two-horse race between Peter Munya and Kiraitu Murungi He said Raila was in charge of 21 ministries during the coalition government but he never set foot in Tharaka Nithi to commission any project. &quot;When you were in power we never saw you here commissioning any project and we cannot pin point any project courtesy of the grand coalition government, how can we believe that you will perform now yet you failed when you had a chance?&quot; he asked. He urged residents to refuse calls to join Nasa despite defections by some local leaders but instead support re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta. Jubilee MPs, who accompanied Kindiki, said the opposition was distracting Jubilee and using malicious methods to gain popularity. Woman representative Beatrice Nkatha said the country needs serious leaders who are willing to work. &quot;Let&rsquo;s refuse talk that is aimed at diving us. We should support the leaders we elected so that they can deliver,&quot; she said. ALSO READ: Majority of politicians are dishonest, survey shows