Wiper party leader Kalonzo Mosyoka was in Kisii County.The visit came just 36 hours after President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto had camped in the region for two days, during which they commissioned several road projects in the area. Kalonzo said the Opposition&#39;s primary goal was to send Jubilee Party home, adding that Kenyans had a right to an equal share of resources. Maintaining that he was in National Super Alliance (NASA) to stay, Kalonzo called for the immediate resettlement of internally displaced persons (IDPs) in Gusii. He said the Government had been unfair in the way it was compensating different communities, adding that there were a number of reasons why Jubilee should be voted out, including rampant corruption among Government officials. He said Kisii people were among Kenyans severely affected by the 2007-2008 post-election violence. &quot;We should be bold enough to tell the President that they have resettled IDPs from only two communities. If they want us to forget the past, let them compensate every Kenyan who was displaced in 2007,&quot; he said. ALSO READ: How previous losers won this year&rsquo;s Sh3.7 billion polls kit tender FALSE PROMISES He also called on the President to stop issuing what he called false development promises. The former Vice President also said NASA was determined to win the August 8 General Election. &quot;We will remain together as a team. We will get the best candidate to be the NASA flag bearer,&quot; he said, adding that he was ready to unite Kenyans regardless of their political affiliations. Kalonzo, who was addressing residents at Nyaturago Stadium, the same venue where Uhuru and Ruto were late last week, said the current government had only managed to divide Kenyans along tribal lines. He said the ruling government had been awoken by the fact that they had done nothing to deserve a second term in office and described Jubilee&#39;s trips to Kisii as &quot;useless and uncalled for&quot;. He was accompanied by Borabu MP Ben Momanyi and Kwale Governor aspirant Chirau Mwakwere. ALSO READ: Raila: We have no preferred aspirant &nbsp;