Wreckage of one of the vehicles that were involved in an accident at Getare, along the Kisii-Nyamira road. &nbsp;(Photo: Eric Abuga/Standard) Father, daughter and a senior Kisii County Government official are among the seven people who have died in separate accidents in Kisii town in the last two days. On Saturday morning four people died in an accident involving a Toyota Probox and another saloon car along Kisii-Nyamira road. One passenger died on the spot while two others and a pedestrian died at a private Hospital in Kisii where they had been rushed to for emergency aid. The father and daughter, from Omogochoro, are among those who were rushed to hospital but died on arrival. The daughter is said to have left behind an eight-month-old baby. ALSO READ: Four people killed in Naivasha road accident Witnesses said that the Probox was carrying 13 passengers instead of five and was headed to Kisii town when the driver lost control and hit an oncoming private car. &ldquo;The Probox was headed to Kisii town from Nyamira town and was speeding. It is unfortunate that vehicles are allowed to overload and manage to go past police roadblocks,&rdquo; said Benjamin Osiemo, one of the witnesses. A guard who works with one of the county&#39;s private security firms died on the spot while walking to work. Kisii County Commander Agnes Mudambi said 10 more people had been rushed to a private hospital within Kisii town for treatment. She said that early investigation had indicated speeding as the cause of the accident. &ldquo;Our officers are still conducting preliminary investigations into the accident,&rdquo; said Ms Mudambi. And on Thursday morning, Wesley Mayaka, a senior finance officer with Kisii County Government died on the spot a few meters from Kisii town at Egesa area along the Kisii-Kisumu road. ALSO READ: Three Kenyan musicians killed in road accident Two other passengers who were on board the matatu also perished in the accident. The matatu operating between the Kisii-Eldoret road had developed mechanical problems before landing in a ditch. Bodies of the victims are lying at the Kisii Teaching and Referal Hospital.