The government has set aside Sh20 billion for the construction of roads across the county. President Uhuru Kenyatta, who made the announcement while on a tour of five constituencies in the region, said part of the money would be used to rehabilitate dilapidated roads. Mr Kenyatta, who was on the campaign trail, said the construction would be funded by the French government. Addressinng residents of Githunguri town, the President pointed out that the Ruiru-Githunguri-Uplands and Kimende-Kagwe-Githunguri roads were among those earmarked for rehabilitation. The announcement came as residents of Lari, Limuru, Githunguri, and Gatundu North sub-counties held protests over poor roads. The residents have accused the national government of neglecting them. They lamented that the Jubilee administration had failed to fix dilapidated roads even after promising to do so ahead of the 2013 elections. ALSO READ: Parliament diverts money for roads to complete CDF projects Residents lamented that the poor road network has affected business as they are unable to transport farm produce to markets. Last week, the Kenya National Highways Authority advertised a tender for the construction of the 47-kilometre Upland-Githunguri-Ruiru road. President Kenyatta said work on the road would start soon. &quot;My government&#39;s development record is unmatched and that is why I should be given another five years to complete Jubilee&#39;s flagship projects,&quot; he said. &nbsp;&quot;There is still a lot of work to be done, including the completion of the standard gauge railway and other infrastructural projects. We also have youth empowerment projects that need to be completed. &quot;I have tried my best. All we are asking for is that you give us an opportunity to finish the work we started. We need another five years to finish what is in progress,&quot; Mr Kenyatta added at Kimende in Lari Constituency. The President, accompanied by his deputy, William Ruto, pleaded with residents to come out in large numbers on August 8 to ensure that Jubilee remains in power. Some of the angry residents said they would not vote unless the government repairs the roads they said have been causing massive losses. ALSO READ: NASA storms Meru, woos Kiraitu Murungi and asks for chance But others welcomed the government&#39;s gesture and promised to support it, although they urged it to speed up the rehabilitation of the roads. &quot;We are happy that at last there seems to be a light at the end of the tunnel. We have suffered for many years because of poor roads. Good roads are our right and not a favour,&quot; said James Njoroge, a resident of Lari. The construction of the Ruaka-Banana-Thogoto-Gikambura-Mutarakwa-Limuru road, which the President launched last year, is ongoing. The 60-kilometre road, which cuts across three constituencies &mdash; Kiambaa, Kikuyu, and Limuru &mdash; will cost Sh2.8 billion.