Plans by National Super Alliance (NASA) to set up a parallel tallying centre during the elections is a clear indication of a team that has sensed defeat, Deputy President William Ruto has said. Speaking at a rally in Eldama Ravine, Ruto said the Independent Electoral Boundaries Commission (IEBC) was the only constitutional body with the mandate to oversee elections and the Opposition cannot usurp that role. cheboi heckled &ldquo;You saw recently they now want to set up a tallying centre and take up the duty of IEBC. They want to count votes so that they can pronounce themselves as the winners,&rdquo; the Deputy President said. On Friday, NASA leaders speaking at a rally in Nairobi, said they would set up their own presidential tallying system for the August 8 General Election. But electoral commission chairman Wafula Chebukati warned that the commission was the only agency mandated by the Constitution to play that role. Ruto said the mere fact that the Opposition had not picked on a flagbearer was a sign that it had no concrete plan. ALSO READ: NASA mum on flagbearer, vows to remain united in bid to remove Jubilee &ldquo;Our friends should look for votes instead taking up IEBC&#39;s duty. They clearly lack policies to take the country forward,&rdquo; the DP said. During the rally, Baringo Governor Benjamin Cheboi was heckled by an angry crowd when he rose to speak, forcing him to cut short his speech. The governor, who was to welcome the Deputy President to give his address, was met with boos from the crowd. The speaker before him, Mr Stanley Kiptis, was his opponent in the 2013 gubernatorial race&nbsp; and appeared to have the backing of the crowd. Baringo County assembly Deputy Speaker Douglas Kiplimo and Women Rep Grace Kiptui and area MP Moses Lessonet were also heckled. Sensing the charged atmosphere, when he rose to speak, Ruto assured the residents that Jubilee Party leadership will support and work with the leaders elected at the primaries. &ldquo;I want to assure all Jubilee supporters and aspirants that Jubilee Party will not support any candidate during the nomination. I am asking you (voters) to give us leaders who will work with us to bring development,&rdquo; he said. Ruto said it was telling that the Opposition constantly criticised the Government yet they have nothing to show for the years their members held State positions. ALSO READ: You have no agenda for Kenya, Ruto tells NASA &ldquo;These individuals opposing Jubilee have been in government for more than 30 years and they did not implement the development projects which Jubilee has managed in four years in office,&rdquo; he added.