Change. One of three constants in life, the others being death and taxes. It sounds odd to think of change as a constant, as a thing that is not subject to variation, but the reality is that things change constantly. They either get better or they get worse. Or they retain their goodness or badness but change their form. The best type of change often accommodates both scenarios, so that substance and form change together to become a new creation. That was the kind of change Kenyans hoped for in 1991, when Kanu delegates repealed Section 2A of the Constitution, paving the way for a multiparty democracy. It was that kind of change that we hoped for when our first multiparty elections were held in 1992. That was the kind of change we began to see in 2002, when the National Rainbow Coalition won a landslide election, changing the face of Kenyan politics forever. Unfortunately, the pink cloud dissipated with unprecedented haste and everything went to hell in a hand basket. It dawned on the true revolutionaries that it was not enough to say that you wanted change, you had to mean it. You had to be it. The post-election violence of 2007-2008 was a tragic indicator that while every right-thinking Kenyan wanted change, not many of them understood what true transformation looked like or what it entailed. ALSO READ: Election jitters to affect firms' hiring of new staff Many leaders suffered a hangover from the old days, and the business-as-usual way of doing things. Not only were they unwilling to take a step in a new political direction, they were unable to. Fast-forward to 2010 and the dawn of a new constitutional dispensation. The substance of a nation&rsquo;s dreams and aspirations met the form of a progressive legal framework. The 2010 Constitution was &ndash; and still is &ndash;&nbsp;much like scripture in its quest to heal, redeem and restore. And much like scripture, there have been endless problems with interpretation and implementation. It is looking like the country was not quite ready for that change either. Seven years in and we&rsquo;re still struggling to make sense of it all, hemming and hawing as if we didn&rsquo;t know that the future of our nation depended on us getting it right. Devolution, perhaps the most significant change-making force contained in the 2010 Constitution, has been the biggest headache. Governors have become demigods, lording it over their little county fiefdoms. They promised to let their subjects eat cake but have denied them bread on account of devolved corruption that is much more potent than the garden variety graft we had become accustomed to. But even as the county bosses and their cronies in the county assemblies have steadily drained their regional coffers, there have been some highs among the lows, most notably in the areas of health, education and development infrastructure. ALSO READ: Bell goes off for first gold trading at Nairobi Securities Exchange And as the counties struggle to find their feet, they have also been forced to navigate their relationship with the national government, a relationship that has often been rocky. Indeed, every time President Uhuru Kenyatta and Mombasa Governor Hassan Ali Joho get into a tiff, we witness just how rocky the relationship can get, especially when a governor has the audacity to believe that he can manage resources in a county where the President has a long history. This relationship becomes even shakier when you consider that Mombasa is an Opposition zone, Joho is a cool cat and HE Uhuru Muigai Kenyatta&#39;s skin is not as thick as it could perhaps be. All that notwithstanding, the coastal people had high hopes that devolution would raise them to the top of the heap and restore unto them what they considered their land, minerals, jobs and resources &ndash; things that had slowly been taken away from them and given to others starting from independence. That shift in resource politics, that tweaking of mindset from the centre to the people, hasn&rsquo;t quite been realised yet. Change is yet to come. Luckily for the people of the Coast, and the Kenyan people across this great republic, this is an election year. When the second Tuesday in August rolls around, registered voters will have a fresh opportunity to use the form of a General Election to give life to the substance of their dreams. ALSO READ: Raila Odinga claims Sh27b Mombasa port deal was flawed Luckily for the people of the Coast, and the Kenyan people across this great republic, their choices are not limited to President Kenyatta, or to Governor Joho and the alliance he represents. There are other candidates gunning for the top spot; candidates who might just be the change you want to see. Meanwhile, true media freedom is coming tomorrow. Tomorrow, The Standard breaks from the past and leaps to the next level, bringing together more than 100 years of expertise and merging that with some serious 21st century flair, to bring you the kind of change you want to read. If you want the things you look at to change, then change the way you look at things. #FeelTheChangeKe &nbsp; &nbsp;