If you thought your smart phone was safe when left locked, think again. A thermal-imaging camera would easily be able to get your phone&#39;s pass code from the heat marks left on the screen, researchers have said. Heat traces transferred from a user&#39;s hand to the screen while typing in you PIN could be the giveaway, a paper by four researchers at Stuttgart University says. The traces are recovered and used to reconstruct the password - even up to 30 seconds after the device was last touched, The Atlantic reports. Someone typing in a PIN number with four different digits would unknowingly leave behind four heat traces, each slightly different temperatures. The researchers came up with a six step plan of extracting PIN numbers. A thermal camera set to capture temperatures between about 66 and 90 degrees Fahrenheit takes a picture of the screen. Software can then convert the color image to grayscale and applies a filter. After that, the background is removed entirely, leaving just the heat traces. These can then be detected and extracted and for a PIN, this will result in one to four circles. Finally, the relative heat of each PIN to determine the most likely order for the passcode&rsquo;s digits can be analysed. The thermal attack also works on Android patterns by tracing the finger&rsquo;s path across the screen, and working out the direction of the pattern by temperature. Worryingly, thermal attacks have a shocking success rate. If the thermal image is taken within 15 seconds of a PIN being entered, it has an almost 90 per cent success rate. At 45 seconds or above, this drops to 35 per cent. But watch out Android users - as if the shape has no overlaps, thermal attacks can guess the correct shape 100 per cent even 30 seconds after it&#39;s entered. In a short video, two of the researchers demonstrate how easy the attack is. A man enters a PIN to unlock his phone, before turning off the screen and putting it down on a table. Then as he walks away, an &#39;attacker&#39; comes in, points a small thermal camera to the phone and walks back out. From the oily residue left on the screen by the user&#39;s finger, the passcode can be reconstructed.