Hell broke loose for a popular bar owner in Nyamira after he was allegedly caught defiling a school girl. The 50-year-old proprietor was arrested by bodaboda riders in Nyamira town who found the girl within the premises of his bar. The 13-year old girl learning in a nearby primary school said the man who was only identified as Kerandi had lured her into his bar while returning from the river and forced her to spend the entire Monday night in one of the guest rooms in the pub. According to the girl, Kerandi and another man who was not found in the premises slept with her in turns. &quot;I was carrying water on my head with a jerry can when the man (she pointed to Kerandi) asked me to take the container off my head because he had something he wanted to give to my mother through me. But he took me to the bar and slept with me before another man came and did the same thing to me,&quot; said the teenage girl. After arresting him, business came to temporally halt within Nyamira town&#39;s stretch from Seasons Restaurant to the Police Station, about one and half kilometres apart as motorcyclists paraded the man and the girl along the highway. ALSO READ: Jubilee's multi-billion shilling war chest for Kisii, Nyamira They escorted them to the police station where they handed them over to security officers. The man was locked up in the cells as police took over the matter. The mother of the girl said she had started looking for her the whole night but she could not be found. &quot;I have been looking for my daughter the entire night because it has not been a trend for her to be late. I just gave up until this moment when I was told that she has been found with the man,&quot; the mother told the curious crowd. Nyamira OCS Alex Mumo thanked the public for upholding the rule of law by not taking the law into their hands to punish the suspect. &quot;The people of Nyamira have set a very good precedence by reporting this person to the police for the law to take its full course against him. This is what mob justice should be, but not lynching suspects,&quot; Mumo told the public which jammed the police station to witness how the man was being booked in for a date with courts. &nbsp; ALSO READ: When siasa gets hot, farming cools me