NAIROBI, KENYA: Kenya&rsquo;s strong showing at the just concluded Global Peace Convention in Manila, Philippines was a powerful message to the world that the country would not allow elections slated for August to leave an ugly blot on her image as a peaceful nation.The Chairman of National Cohesion and Integration Commission&nbsp; (NCIC) Mr Francis ole Kaparo&nbsp; who represented the Government alluded to a &lsquo;no return&rsquo; to post election conflicts&nbsp; experienced a decade ago in 2007/2008&nbsp; with his remark that the violence robbed the country of a long time description as the island of peace in a troubled region. He described terrorism that has often hit innocent Kenyans as a challenge to Kenya, Africa and the world that required intervention by policy makers across the globe to cultivate peace. Mr Kaparo told an audience that brought together over 25,000 delegates from 40 countries among them former heads of State Vinicio Cerezo (Guatemala), Nicola Ardito Balleta (Guatemala) and Gloria Arroyo (Philippines) that Kenyans and their leaders would never allow themselves to tip over the cliff for political differences as almost happened in 2007. Also in the audience was founder of Global Peace Foundation Dr Hyun Jin Moon. &ldquo;We have placed cohesion and media monitors in all parts of the country to ensure politicians do not incite Kenyans to violence in the run up to the upcoming general elections in August,&rdquo; said Mr Kaparo. The Executive Director of Global Peace Foundation, Kenya Mr Daniel Juma cited unemployment as an enemy of peace that can be averted if the youth are equipped with necessary skills demanded in the job market. Mr Juma recommended the scaling up of innovating models such as entrepreneurship (leap) hubs in schools curried with character and creativity initiative (CCI) to nurture skills and good conduct crucial for self-employment. The founder of St. Thaddeus Child Care Society Mrs Caroline Odera grabbed the forum to share her work to promote women&rsquo;s role in peacebuilding from the family level to the community. She impressed the delegates with her role in supporting vulnerable girls from Kayole slum in Nairobi&rsquo;s East lands against early marriages, HIV/Aids, abortion and early pregnancies, activities that earned her recognition as Kenya&rsquo;s Global Peace representative in February. Other Kenyans at the convention included Mwingi North MP John Munuve, Provisional Secretary of the Anglican Church of Kenya Canon Rosemary Mbogo and the Standard Media Group Head of Corporate Affairs Mr Charles Kimathi.