Former Devolution Cabinet Secretary Anne Waiguru was engaged in a face-off with Governor Joseph Ndathi over development projects in the county. The former CS accused the governor of doing little to uplift the living standards of the people. Trouble began when Ms Waiguru claimed the county government had not undertaken any development in Mwea sub-county. She said the area lacked the three basic development components &mdash;health, water and roads &mdash; yet there were funds available. During a church event held at Wang&rsquo;uru Stadium, Waiguru accused Mr Ndathi of taking the residents for a ride because there had been no provision of good roads, functioning health facilities or clean water. &ldquo;If you elect me as your governor, my main priorities will be provision of clean water, functioning health facilities and improved road networks, especially in high agricultural potential areas because I know what your problems are,&rdquo; she said. ALSO READ: Fallout looms in ODM primaries over Siaya gubernatorial race LEADERSHIP CHANGE She said the time had come for the much-anticipated leadership change, as she questioned how the billions of shillings allocated to the county had been spent. &ldquo;Where have the huge sums of money received in the county gone? There are no projects to show for it,&rdquo; she said. In response, Ndathi dismissed the claims of underdevelopment, noting there was tangible and visible development in each of the 20 wards and in every sector. He accused Waiguru of not being honest as the Sh3.4 billion the county received from the national government every year was well accounted for. &ldquo;Seventy per cent of the money received goes to the recurrent expenditure; only 30 per cent is allocated to development and that&rsquo;s the law,&rdquo; said the governor. He invited Waiguru to tour the 20 wards in the area and inspect projects undertaken by the county government in all the three sectors she claimed had been neglected. ALSO READ: Fallout looms in ODM primaries over Siaya gubernatorial race This was the first time the two political rivals were sharing a platform since Waiguru declared her intent to vie for the governorship.