MOMBASA, KENYA: Mombasa county assembly has had its share of controversy and confusion its life which left residents in the dark. In 2015, the house of ODM-only members hurriedly passed a motion to please governor and deputy party leader Hassan Joho but he turned it down throwing the assembly in confusion. In the motion, the MCAs wanted the portraits of Mr Joho to be displayed at business premises, public offices and schools alongside those of President Uhuru Kenyatta. Mr Mwabashir expressed concern that the portrait of the Mombasa governor was not being displayed in public offices and business premises and yet he was heading the county government. &quot;I urge this assembly to resolve that the portrait of his Excellency the governor Ali Hassan Joho governor of Mombasa be displaced in all county offices and business premises,&quot; Mwabashir said. The motion was widely viewed as mere sycophancy, hero-worshipping and lacking in value to the electorate. But Joho rejected the passage of the private member&#39;s motion moved by Mjambere MCA Khamis Mwabashir that was seen to please him. Ironically, Mr Mwabashir had just been replaced as the county assembly leader of Majority by Likoni MCA Abdalla Kasagamba after he (Mwabashir) differed with those close to the governor. &quot;However, I would like to urge the Members of County Assembly to realign their priorities with progressive legislation that will transform the lives of the residents of Mombasa. I am yet to receive official communication on the matter and will act in the best interest of the people of Mombasa,&quot; Joho said in a statement rejecting the controversial motion. ALSO READ: Joho&rsquo;s re-election bid boils down to how fierce rivalry in NASA play out The MCAs had unanimously passed the motion saying the move would help residents and particularly schoolchildren in understanding devolution and gain interest in what the county government was doing. Mjambere ward representative and immediate former Majority leader Mr Khamis Mwabashir moved the motion. In the motion, Mwabashir noted that the 2010 Constitution creates two levels of government- national government headed by president and 47 county governments under governors- and hence portraits of the governors should be displayed in businesses and schools alongside those of the president. Mwabashir insisted such a law will not contravene national legislation because county governments are established and recognized by the constitution, adding this would help unite residents of Mombasa County. Deputy speaker Mswabah Rashid presided over the session that passed the motion in record time. Mr Joho has significant control of the 45-member county assembly who belong to the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) where he is deputy party leader. Three of the MCAs have since died leaving 42.