They say faith can move mountains, but Robinson Karumba and members of his Eagles Wings Prophetic Ministry believe they can do more than that. They believe their prayers will help bring his dead wife back to life. That is why on Wednesday Apostle Karumba and seven members of his church turned up at a mortuary and requested to pray for the &ldquo;sleeping woman&rdquo; to wake up. The &ldquo;sleeping woman&rdquo; was Karumba&rsquo;s wife, Pollyrose Ng&rsquo;endo, 38, a pastor of the church located in Embu town, who died on Sunday while being treated for TB at a hospital in Kirinyaga County. The group streamed into the mortuary playing guitar and singing songs of praise and resurrection. They locked themselves inside Gakwegori Mortuary and prayed for Ng&rsquo;endo&rsquo;s resurrection from 11am while pouring anointing oil on the body. A determined Karumba said they would continue praying until 3pm, when they expected to walk out of the mortuary with his wife. ALSO READ: Kitale-based 'Standard' journalist receives threats over story on police officers &ldquo;I brought clothes and a pair of shoes for her to wear. My uncles are preparing for a burial on Saturday but they are wrong because on that day we will be celebrating her resurrection and not burying her,&rdquo; said Karumba. The couple has three children. Smartly dressed in white trousers and a grey coat, the man spoke boldly and with conviction that his wife would walk again. Karumba said he was sure his departed wife would spring back to life the same way Lazarus woke up on the fourth day. Mortuary&rsquo;s attendants, however, expressed scepticism about the effort, saying the body had already been treated and preserved. &ldquo;We don&rsquo;t believe in what they are doing, but we have allowed them to proceed with their prayers. They have been praying for the past three hours and they seem indefatigable,&rdquo; said Gladys Murugi, who works at the morgue. Ms Murugi said the woman&rsquo;s relatives had already obtained a burial permit and hired a hearse in readiness for her burial on Saturday. In 2010, members of Kingdom Seekers Fellowship Church in Nakuru unsuccessfully prayed for the resurrection of two of their pastors who died in a road accident. ALSO READ: Suspects in Pastor Muiru's mother death remanded The faithful barred the media and local residents from entering the mortuary. They had refused to bury the two, arguing that their work on earth was not yet done.