NAIROBI, KENYA: Mombasa Governor Hassan Ali Joho is the favorite to retain his gubernatorial seat by an overwhelming majority if election were held today, according to an opinion poll released in Nairobi. The poll shows that Joho would win the poll by 68 per cent. Margaret Ireri the Director of Trends and Insights for Africa TIFA which published the poll told journalists that an opinion poll on trends in Coast and other parts of Kenya was conducted by her organisation between March 16 and March 18. She said that in the case of Mombasa or Coast 550 people were polled with 363 indicating they prefer the National Super Alliance NASA to Jubilee or other political formation in Kenya. Joho has had a vocal altercation with President Uhuru Kenyatta since January which peaked on March 14, two days before the polls when armed police and presidential guards barricaded him in his office to prevent him from attending the president&#39;s function at Mtongwe in Mombasa. A poll released by pollster Trend and Insights for Africa says Joho will be re-elected by 68 percent of the Mombasa voters and Jubilee&#39;s Suleiman Shahbal will get just 15 percent of the votes. Senator Hassan Omar of Wiper Democratic Movement will get seven percent, Nyali Mp Hezron Awiti a paltry three percent while seven percent of the voters are yet to make a decision on who to vote for. Joho is also the most popular as the Coast region&#39;s kingpin with 68 percent of Mombasa residents saying they consider him the leader of the Coast region. Seven percent of the Mombasa voters see Tourism Minister Najib Balala as the political leader of the Coast people followed by Hassan Omar at six percent. On the Senatorial position, 57 percent of Mombasa voters are yet to decide who to vote for the Senatorial sit but 13 percent say that would re-elect Senator Omar. Twelve percent said they will elect Jubilee&#39;s Abdusalaam Kassim as the new Senator for Mombasa while seven percent prefer ODM&#39;s Mohamed Abbas. Mombasa Women Rep Mishi Mboko is the favorite to re-retain her seat despite the fact that she has already declared that she will be vying for the Likoni Parliamentary seat. Meanwhile NASA still remains the most popular coalition in Mombasa at 66 percent while 23 percent of those who were polled said they prefer Jubilee. ALSO READ: Raila: Claims of NASA unease created by State security agencies