NAIROBI: The National Treasury has, for the second year running, given the biggest chunk of its allocation to agriculture and irrigation projects. The agricultural sector, which is arguably the biggest contributor to the economy, received Sh15 billion from the budget Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich presented yesterday. Of this, Sh6.3 billion went to the numerous irrigation projects across the country. &ldquo;Of the Sh6.3 billion allocated to irrigation projects, Sh0.9 billion goes towards Bura Irrigation Project, Sh2.1 billion to Mwea Irrigation Project, Sh0.6 billion to Galana&ndash;Kulalu, Sh2.2 billion to National Expanded Irrigation Programme, Sh0.2 billion for smallholder irrigation programme and Sh0.3 billion for community-based irrigation projects,&rdquo; Rotich said. The drought that has ravaged many parts of the country beginning late last year left farmers suffering losses and seeking compensation from the Government to cushion themselves from its effects. Rotich, in his statement yesterday, announced that last year, the Government piloted insurance schemes for crops and livestock in various counties. Farmers in these counties benefited from the insurance premium subsidy, at a total cost of Sh452 million. Apart from the farmers, herders received compensation under the scheme after their herds were depleted by the drought. ALSO READ: Good news for Kenyans as Government removes taxes on maize and wheat Rotich further announced a Sh700 million in this year&rsquo;s budget to contribute to the insurance scheme. Fertiliser subsidy was allocated Sh4.1 billion while the strategic grain reserves received Sh4.1 billion. Mechanisation of agriculture got Sh100 million as pyrethrum development received Sh100 million. The miraa sub-sector was allocated Sh1 billion. While capping his speech, Rotich touched on the ongoing land reforms by announcing thus: &ldquo;To enhance service delivery in the lands sub-sector, I have set aside Sh1.6 billion for Issuance of Title Deeds; and Sh900 billion for digitisation of land registries.&rdquo;