Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has filed a report with the police alleging that six armed persons stormed one his residences in Nyali, Mombasa County. Joho said the six entered the residential home, under construction, at 10pm on Tuesday night, and left at about 11pm but added that their motive was not clear. Police at the Coast police headquarters where the governor recorded the statement declined to speak to journalists on the matter. Reports indicate that Joho no longer lives in that house having left it close to 10 years ago. The&nbsp;governor&rsquo;s current residence is not known to the public following his recent troubles with the National Government and withdrawal of his armed security in January after a spat with President Uhuru Kenyatta. Early this week Joho encountered run-ins with Jubilee administration, including being barred from attending Uhuru&#39;s function at Mtongwe on Monday. &quot;This is a matter of great concern. I have asked the police to dispatch sniffer dogs to search the area immediately because the gunmen could have planted something,&quot; said Joho, who was flanked by Jomvu MP Badi Twalib, and Kisauni legislator Rashid Bedzimba. ALSO READ: Jubilee and NASA should adhere to integrity and leadership values Addressing the media outside the Coast police headquarters minutes&nbsp;after making the report, Joho, a fierce critic of Jubilee administration, said he still does not want police protection. He said although he does not fear for his life, he reported the matter to police because of his status in the community. &quot;At about 1.30pm my neighbour come to the office to inform me that last night six armed people in civilian clothes came to my home and stayed there for almost an hour,&quot; he said. We were not able to confirm the reports with the said neighbour or the police who refused to address the matter but Joho said he was confident that security officers will act. He said&nbsp;the neighbour will report the matter but did not indicate at which police station but added that the said eye witness confronted the armed men who threatened him. &quot;When the neighbour confronted the said armed men they threatened him and chased him away. They told him that if he wants to be safe he should go away and not to ask any questions,&quot; said Joho. The Governor said he feared that weapons or other illegal substance could be planted in his residence to link him to crime due to the frosty relationship with the national government. ALSO READ: Why Uhuru vowed to teach Joho a lesson &quot;They have said they will teach me a lesson or finish me. I will not be surprised if there is a plot to fix me,&quot; said Joho. The Governor said the incident will not affect his planned tour&nbsp;of the Coast which starts Thursday at Taita Taveta County before he moves to Lamu County.