President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s interest-rate pledge is in tatters. Just five months before Uhuru Kenyatta seeks re-election, the country&rsquo;s inflation rate has surged to the highest level since 2012 and the Government is struggling to borrow money at yields it&rsquo;s ready to offer. That&rsquo;s left the caps he imposed on commercial interest rates all but unviable in a country already heading for a cash crunch. The bank teller-turned-politician has put central-bank policy makers in a dilemma as they prepare to meet on March 27. They must raise interest rates to restore the flow of funds to a government that&rsquo;s missing borrowing targets and tax collections. Yet, if they do so, they risk choking off bank loans to the industry and undermining Kenyatta&rsquo;s 2013 pledge to reduce borrowing costs. &ldquo;They are between a rock and a hard place,&rdquo; said Kenneth Minjire, the head of securities at Nairobi-based Genghis Capital Ltd. &ldquo;There is a bit of pressure coming through and they can only hold the rates for so long against market fundamentals before something happens.&rdquo; Negative Returns Kenyan investors are earning negative real returns after inflation quickened to 9.04 percent in February, 42 basis points above the rate for 91-day Treasury bills. That&rsquo;s sparked a stand-off between the Government and bond buyers, who disregarded the central bank&rsquo;s warning against demanding high yields in the last three debt auctions through last week. Investors were trying to protect their margins from rising inflationary pressures, according to Dominic Ruriga, a research analyst at AIB Capital Ltd. But the Government hasn&rsquo;t blinked yet. The Central Bank of Kenya has become more aggressive in rejecting &ldquo;expensive money,&rdquo; Harrison Gitau, a research analyst at ApexAfrica Capital Ltd. said. Officials, who canceled this week&rsquo;s sale of 182-day bills, want to ensure that government rates don&rsquo;t rise above the 14 percent cap for bank lending, which could make gilts more lucrative than riskier private-sector loans. ALSO READ: President has a right to react angrily to attacks President Kenyatta, who will seek a second term at the general elections in August, introduced the caps last year against the advice of the central bank and the Treasury, fulfilling a campaign pledge he made before coming to power in 2013. It&rsquo;s failed to rejuvenate credit growth, which slowed 4.3 percent in December, the weakest since at least 2005, from 18 percent a year earlier. The International Monetary Fund said last month the limits could reduce growth by at least 1 percentage point or as much as 2 percentage points a year. &ldquo;We need indisputable data to show us what has happened,&rdquo; Central Bank of Kenya Governor Patrick Njoroge said in an interview in London, referring to the interest cap. &ldquo;We need to be patient.&rdquo; Higher lending rates will drive credit growth even lower, said Johnson Nderi, a corporate finance and advisory manager at Nairobi-based ABC Capital Ltd. Treasury yields above the cap would draw capital out of the financial system, leaving smaller banks in a liquidity crisis, he said. Last month, the central bank rejected 83 percent of the bids for a new 12-year infrastructure bond. It went back to the market with a tap sale by capping the yield, but managed to raise only 34 percent of the targeted amount. &ldquo;This could mean investors are willing to wait for higher yields as a result of the government&rsquo;s high debt appetite and large amounts of maturing debt,&rdquo; according to a note from ApexAfrica. &ldquo;From a policy point of view, they are in a tight corner,&rdquo; Ruriga said. &ldquo;Raising the rate is not even politically viable because they have pressure from lawmakers to maintain rates, at least until elections.&rdquo; &mdash;Bloomberg