Baringo Senator Gideon Moi has called on the residents of his county to elect leaders of integrity in the August polls. Gideon said development in the region was possible only if people elected individuals whose politics encompassed the greater good rather than personal interests. &quot;Baringo has huge potential because of the many natural resources it is endowed with. But because those we entrust to manage our resources are individuals bidding for their masters, we have not been able to fully exploit them (resources) for the benefit of our people,&quot; he said. The senator said despite the county being rated among the top three in terms of resources, residents had nothing to show for it. &quot;We have plenty of resources and our county is rated number three as we have oil and geothermal energy among others, but poor leadership is letting us down.&quot; Gideon has sponsored a Bill in the Senate that, if passed, would see communities in mineral-rich areas benefit from proposals that impose strict requirements on mining companies while giving locals a greater say in the management of their resources. ALSO READ: Kalonzo: State has been unfair in compensating IDPs The Local Content Bill 2016 promises to give local communities more control over ownership and financing of resources such as oil and gas, among other minerals, by ensuring proper revenue sharing to avoid foreign companies profiting at their expense. Speaking after a church service at AIC Ochii in Tenges, Baringo Central, yesterday, the senator called on residents not to be swayed by politics of fear and intimidation. &quot;The vote should translate into improving your welfare, not secure someone else&#39;s future. Do not allow yourselves to be intimidated into submitting to anything other than what you want.&quot; Gideon, who will be defending his seat, said voters should shun leaders imposed on them by people whose motives were selfish. Baringo has been the hunting ground for Deputy President William Ruto, who is said to be flexing his muscles in preparation for his 2022 presidential bid after he prevailed on Simon Chelugui to vie for the position of senator despite the latter having expressed his interest in the governorship. &quot;Do not gamble with leadership for it is God-given because it calls for a lot of self-sacrifice. It is not for settling scores,&quot; said Gideon. He also called on both the national and county governments to build more schools in areas where insecurity was rampant.&nbsp; ALSO READ: Opinion: Prayers alone won&rsquo;t solve our problems He noted that the lack of schools and churches in most parts of the county was the main contributing factor to insecurity. &quot;I call on the national and county governments to establish more schools in those parts experiencing conflicts. Leaders should also establish churches to instil virtues and help to root out bad behaviour that threatens the well-being of communities,&quot; he said. Tenges MCA Solomon Cheptai, who accompanied Gideon, called on the residents to elect Kanu leaders in the August polls. &quot;Gideon is our leader and we should be afraid of those people telling us to kill our bull because they want to be the only bull in the kraal,&quot; said Mr Cheptai. &nbsp;