Jubilee leaders have defended the Government against allegations of corruption, terming them propaganda by the Opposition aimed at scuttling the administration&rsquo;s development record. Led by Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, MPs Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), Kimani Ichung&rsquo;wa (Kikuyu), Alice Ng&rsquo;ang&rsquo;a (Thika Town) and Esther Gathogo (Ruiru), and senators Aaron Cheruiyot (Kericho) and Beatrice Elachi, the politicians lashed out at the Opposition&rsquo;s criticism of the Government. Speaking at Narok Stadium during the launch of Narok Governor Samuel Tunai&rsquo;s re-election bid, the Jubilee leaders said all four NASA co-principals - Raila Odinga, Musalia Mudavadi, Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula - have had corruption allegations made against them. They claimed that during their stint in Government, Raila, Mudavadi, Kalonzo and Wetang&rsquo;ula were accused of Kazi Kwa Vijana, Cemetery, Yatta NYS land and Japan embassy scandals respectively, and had no moral obligation to label Jubilee corrupt. The Jubilee leaders predicted that President Uhuru Kenyatta would win the August election by a landslide against the Opposition. &ldquo;There is no government that has recognized the Maasai and other communities in Narok like Uhuru&rsquo;s administration. I am perturbed when I hear people in Kajiado and Samburu say that Jubilee does not love them. Jubilee is for all Kenyans,&rdquo; said Mr Tunai. ALSO READ: Wife of senior Homa Bay county official illegally paid Sh600,000 every month And Mr Kuria had the crowd laughing when he &lsquo;revealed&rsquo; that while Raila was away in the US, good things happened. He said during Raila&rsquo;s absence, the lecturers and doctors ended their strikes, and the President managed to make his State of the Nation address in Parliament without Opposition legislators blowing whistles. Under Jubilee, Tunai said, Narok hadbeen transformed, with projects such as water supply, health and infrastructure being initiated. &ldquo;When I took over as the first Narok governor, development was zero. But now, about five million Narok residents have water. We have employed over 400 health workers; we have the stadium and street lights. We have a reason to support Jubilee,&rdquo; he said. Governor Mandago praised devolution, saying it had worked and that the incumbent deserved a second chance to complete the projects he began. He too lashed out at the Opposition over corruption, saying in the previous regimes that the Opposition leaders served, the cost of building tarmac road was three times as expensive as it was under the Jubilee government. &ldquo;During the &lsquo;nusu mkate&rsquo; government, a kilometre of tarmac cost Sh116 million. Under Jubilee, we are doing it for as low as Sh45 million. Where did the Sh65 million go? What is that, if not corruption?&rdquo;said Mandago. ALSO READ: MPs should not hound Ouko out of office to protect looters The &lsquo;Team Tunai&rsquo; convoy, comprising hundreds of vehicles, snaked its way into Narok town from the sacred Suswa grounds in Narok East. Tunai&rsquo;s team included his deputy Everlyn Aruasa and legislators allied to Jubilee Party - Lemanken Aramat (Narok East), Gideon Konchella (Kilogoris), Korei Lemein (Narok South) and over 20 Members of the County Assembly. Tunai, who is set to face off with Chama Cha Mashinani&rsquo;s Patrick Ntutu, who is the Narok West legislator, and ODM&rsquo;s Joseph Tiampati, entered the newly-constructed Narok Stadium to a rousing welcome from over 20,000 supporters. The Jubilee leaders also told the Opposition off for using the historical injustices tag to win the support of the Maasai community, saying their propaganda was coming to an end. They called on NASA leaders to identify a presidential flag bearer before bashing Jubilee.