Police in Eldoret are investigating claims that prominent Uasin Gishu farmer and politician Jackson Kibor tried to shoot his sons&nbsp;following a dispute involving land. Controversial property tycoon said&nbsp;he acted in self-defence because his sons wanted to kill him over land lease Eldoret West OCPD Samuel Mutunga confirmed that one of Mr Kibor&#39;s sons, Ezekiel Kipng&#39;etich, reported the matter last week. Mr Kipng&#39;etich, Kibor&#39;s son with his third wife Naomi, alleged that his father had threatened the family concerning a land dispute. &quot;The son, accompanied by some family members, made a formal report alleging that Kibor attempted to shoot him over a land issue but he is yet to record a statement so we can prepare a file and pursue the matter legally. We understand the land issue is in court and we cannot interfere but if we establish any criminal element, the law will take its course,&quot; said Mutunga. But Kibor, a licensed gun-owner, denied shooting at his son, saying he only drew the gun to defend himself from four of his sons who wanted to beat him up over the land in dispute. ALSO READ: IEBC clears jailed police impostor Waiganjo to vie for MP seat &quot;The four came in a vehicle with clubs and machetes as I was cultivating the farm. Ezekiel was the first one to get out of the car and charged towards me, prompting me to draw my gun in defence. If I had no gun they would have killed me,&quot; said Kibor, 83. LEGALLY ACQUIRED He said the land belonged to him and he had an order allowing him to cultivate it, but his sons want to lease it out against his wishes. He said he acquired his gun legally in 1982. &quot;I am still able to cultivate my land yet my sons wanted to lease it, which is unacceptable. They do not own any land there and have no right to decide what I do with it.&quot; Kibor said he had never misused the gun. &quot;I have owned this gun for 35 years and have never killed anyone. I reported the matter to the police but they overlooked it, alleging that my gun was fake.&quot; But according to one of Kibor&#39;s children who sought anonymity, the gun incident did happen last Thursday. ALSO READ: Uhuru pledges secure polls as 4,000 police graduate &quot;It is true. Our father went to the land he had allocated to our other brother who lives in the United States. My brother Ezekiel was on the farm when Mzee came to cultivate it,&quot; said the family source. Ezekiel is among the six sons Kibor has sued for allegedly trespassing on his Kabenes Farm. But the children argue that their father sub-divided the 1,250 acres and obtained title deeds in their names. The matter is still pending in the Environment and Lands Court in Eldoret. &nbsp;