Amani National Congress (ANC) party leader Musalia Mudavadi yesterday appealed to doctors to end their strike. He pledged that if elected, the NASA administration would implement a collective bargaining agreement (CBA) the doctors have signed with the government. The former vice-president said the Jubilee administration was not willing to implement the CBA and urged doctors to resume work to end the suffering of millions of Kenyans who cannot afford private health services. &quot;I am appealing to doctors to go back to work and help sick people in government hospitals because Jubilee leaders are not willing to listen to them anymore,&quot; said Mudavadi. Speaking at Shanzu Catholic Church, Mudavadi agreed with church leaders that doctors should sympathise with the poor, who are the most affected by the strike. &quot;Doctors have told me that since the strike started over 500 patients, including expectant mothers, who could have been helped have died because the doctors were on strike&quot; he Mudavadi. ALSO READ: Allow opposition leaders to end doctors&rsquo; strike, MPs tell President Uhuru Mudavadi said if NASA takes over the country&#39;s leadership, it would address the issues of equipment in hospitals and doctors&#39; salaries, which were the cause of the dispute. Shanzu Catholic Father Andrew Madu, who welcomed the leaders to the church, asked the congregation to make a wise choice during the coming General Election. The former Cabinet minister, accompanied by Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar and Vihiga Senator George Khaniri, claimed that NASA was the only salvation for Kenyans facing problems caused by Jubilee leaders. &quot;We have had enough problems since President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto took over the leadership of this country. The prices of maize flour, sugar, and other commodities have gone up and now mwananchi can no longer afford them,&quot; said Mudavadi. The ANC leader said Kenyans had tested the bad leadership of Kenyatta and Ruto and that the time had come for Kenyans to come out on August 8 to remove them from power and allow the opposition to institute good governance. &quot;Do not vote for Jubilee during the next General Election because doing so will subject you to another five years of suffering riddled with corruption and exploitation of the highest order,&quot; said Mudavadi. He also urged the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to ensure that it procures electronic kits that will not fail, citing the case of 2013. ALSO READ: Mudavadi to begin two-day Mombasa tour on Saturday