Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto has stated that his Chama Cha Mashinani party will only support a presidential candidate who commits to allocate 50 per cent of the country&#39;s revenue collection to the counties. Speaking in Kaborok trading centre in Belgut constituency where he received defectors from jubilee to CCM, the governor said his party had already received 47 per cent offer from one of the major political parties but was shopping around for a higher deal. &quot;We want an equal share of the resources between the national and the county governments. CCM is ready to sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) because want the sharing of the resources to be within the law and eliminate the situation whereby resources are allocated resources according to senior government leaders,&quot; said Ruto. The former Council of Governors (CoG) chairman added that an enhanced package for the counties was urgently required for the construction of roads, learning and health institutions among other development projects. &quot;A fair sharing of the county&#39;s resources, will also allow the counties to grant soft loans to local entrepreneurs, monthly stipend to the unemployed youths as well as Sh2, 000-5,000 to elderly citizens,&quot; said Ruto. The governor who was accompanied by host of political aspirants eying to capture through CCM, the various seats in the forthcoming general Election, also argued that Bomet County was a CCM zone and jubilee was the &quot;opposition party&quot; in the area. ALSO READ: Ntimama daughter quits Jubilee, joins Chama Cha Mashinani &quot;In Bomet County, Chama Cha Mashinani is the leading party. The party is set to gain more strength after the August General Election as it is poised to capture many seats at the County Assemblies, Parliament as well as the Senate,&quot; said Ruto. The combative south rift governor also asked members of the Kalenjin community to cease being time and be bold by only supporting political leaders who are committed to transforming their social, economic and political welfare. &quot;Some rift valley politicians view you only as voting machines. That is why despite participating overwhelmingly in all the elections the country has held since it attained its independence from the British colonial government, the region has lagged behind,&quot; said Ruto. The Bomet governor asked locals to support the party as it set to face off with Jubilee Party in the region.