A family in Maili Nne, Eldoret town, are mourning the death of a five-year-old school boy who was crushed by an oil tanker. Angry residents clashed with police as they attempted to set the tanker ablaze, accusing the driver of speeding. The police rescued the driver from the mob that wanted to lynch him. Edwin Korir, a witness, said the tanker was heading towards Eldoret town on the Eldoret-Uganda road when it hit the boy and seriously injured a young girl. &quot;We were shocked to see the speeding truck hit the boy as he tried to cross the road. The girl, who was with the boy, was seriously injured,&quot; said Mr Korir. &quot;The driver attempted to flee but was cornered by&nbsp; boda boda riders who beat him up before police saved him,&quot; he added. ALSO READ: Police warn leaders against incitement The boy was hit on the head and died on the spot while the girl was rushed to Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital. Police said she was in stable condition. BOY&#39;S FATHER Daniel Obuya, the boy&#39;s father, said his house girl had accompanied the boy to Maili Nne centre for an evangelical crusade at around 5pm on Wednesday but on their way back home, the truck hit them as they tried to cross the highway. &quot;It is unfortunate that I have lost my youngest child, who was a very bright nursery class pupil. The two left the house in the afternoon to attend a crusade at the centre. A speeding lorry crushed them as they were returning home after the prayers,&quot; Mr Obuya said. He said the accident occurred at a black spot as police on patrol watched. Residents accused the Government of failing to erect bumps and road signs at the spot where more than 10 people have been hit by speeding vehicles in the past few months. Area police boss Samuel Mutunga said his officers lobbed teargas to thwart attempts by the angry youths to burn the truck and lynch the driver. ALSO READ: Boda boda riders blamed for increased accidents &quot;Our officers stopped the youths from burning the truck. The officers had to battle the fire, which had caught part of the truck. We had to use some minimum force to disperse the crowd, which was hurling stones at the officers,&quot; Mutunga said. He said they were questioning the driver and had launched investigations into the incident.