A new TV station was officially unveiled in Nairobi Friday afternoon to provide content targeting the Muslim community and Kenyans at large. Horizon TV, owned by Nairobi&#39;s Jamia Mosque, was launched in a colourful ceremony at the heart of the city as the number of TV stations in the country continues to grow. The channel is expected to air content touching on social, religious issues affecting Muslims and Kenyans as well as shows for youth, children and women among others. Jamia Mosque Committee Chairman Sheikh Osman Warfa said during the launch that the TV channel seeks to meet demand for family-friendly content that is morally and culturally sensitive. &quot;The TV content also aims to correct misconceptions about Islam and Muslims and nurture constructive dialogue, tolerance and cooperation among all Kenyans,&quot; he said. Horizon TV Board Chair Prof. Abdullatif Essajee said the TV will champion the issues affecting Kenyans and the Muslim community in order to contribute positively to the socioeconomic development of the country. &quot;We will strive to provide positive narratives about Muslims and Kenyans as well as educate and entertain our viewers in ways that do not violate moral and Islamic principles,&quot; he said. On his part, Chairperson of the Digital Broadcasting Association John Karanja challenged the new station to provide captivating content in order to compete effectively for viewers and advertisers with 60 other channels currently on air. He also advised all broadcasters to uphold the broadcast regulations laid down by the Communication Authority of Kenya as the country heads towards general elections in August this year. Speaking on behalf of Majority Leader Aden Duale, MP for Tarbaj Mohamed Elmi&nbsp; said the channel will go a long way in promoting inter-community and inter-religious understanding among Kenyans through sharing of various viewpoints &quot;It has been unfortunate that misrepresentation and stereotyping of Muslims has been rife in the media in the recent past. This has promoted prejudices against Islam and Muslims. We hope this TV station will correct this and promote understanding and cooperation among Kenyans,&quot; he said The channel will initially broadcast in Nairobi and surrounding areas and the signal will be available through digital television decoders including Star Times, Go TV, Bamba TV, ADN and other free to air decoders.