Sarova Hotels, Resorts &amp; Game Lodges has signed a management contract with the directors of Woodlands Hotel to operate a 146-room hotel set to be opened in Nakuru Town. The Sh1.3 billion Sarova Woodlands Hotel &amp; Spa is located off the main Nairobi-Nakuru Highway, next to State House, targeting leisure lovers and business travellers on the busy Nairobi-Nakuru-Kisumu Highway. This will be the second property by Sarova Hotels in Nakuru County after the Sarova Lion Hill Game Lodge, located in Lake Nakuru National Park. This comes years later after it signed another one with the Moledina family for the Saltlick and Taita Hills Hotel. The hotel will feature state-of-the-art conference facilities with a ballroom that can seat up to 250 guests. There will also be meeting rooms that will cater for smaller numbers ranging from 30 to 60 guests, 146 luxurious rooms, of which 125 are deluxe rooms and 21 suites and a choice of three restaurants. ALSO READ: Rapid rise of Barnabas township in Nakuru &quot;We are excited about this new venture. The vibrancy of the Kenyan hospitality sector over the past few years has led to great competition among the operators,&quot; said Sarova Hotels managing director J. S. Vohra. &quot;In Nakuru County,&quot; he said, &quot;we realised a gap for a luxurious business hotel. In line with Sarova&#39;s commitment to offering refreshing African hospitality, we are confident that our guests will enjoy the Sarova experience.&quot; The hotel will host Tulia Spa &amp; Wellness Centre and a health club. The opening of the hotel adds to the eight properties under Sarova Hotels portfolio, including Sarova Stanley and Sarova Panafric in Nairobi, Sarova Taita Hills Game Lodge, Sarova Saltlick Game Lodge in Taita Taveta, Sarova Whitesands Beach Resort &amp; Spa in Mombasa and Sarova Mara Game Camp in Masai Mara and Sarova Shaba Game Lodge in Samburu. The Sarova Hotels brand has grown exponentially to become a leading hospitality brand not only in Kenya but in key tourism source markets, winning World Travel Awards, World Luxury Hotel Awards, The United States Web Awards and a host of other awards, including the TripAdvisor Hall of Fame Recognition.