Jubilee Party has accepted Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko&rsquo;s application papers in his quest for the party&rsquo;s ticket in the race for the Governor&rsquo;s seat. Yesterday, Sonko was accompanied by Dagoretti South MP Dennis Waweru and former Starehe MP Margaret Wanjiru, who also presented their papers at the party headquarters in Nairobi&rsquo;s Pangani. The three, who have been campaigning together and christened themselves as &lsquo;Team Nairobi&rsquo;, will now face off with former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth in the party primaries. Kenneth who enjoys the support of about 10 city MPs was cleared on Wednesday to seek the party&rsquo;s nod in his quest to oust incumbent Evans Kidero of ODM. Nominated MP Johnson Sakaja has since abandoned his quest for governorship and is eyeing to replace Sonko as the city Senator. He will face Mithamo Muchiri and Badi Ali who are also seeking JP ticket for the Senate race. Education activist Janet Muthoni Ouko, businesswoman Millicent Omanga, lawyer Karen Nyamu and Wangui Ng&rsquo;ang&rsquo;a, who are eyeing the party&rsquo;s ticket to run for the Nairobi Woman Rep position, also presented their papers. The seat is currently held by Rachael Shebesh.Shebesh, nominated MP Sonia Birdi and other legislators are in the Kenneth camp. &ldquo;We have all submitted our nomination papers to the party. President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto had instructed us to agree through consensus who gets what seat. But our competitors refused,&rdquo; Shebesh said. Team Nairobi said they will not accept a boardroom deal but will instead demand free and fair nominations. ALSO READ: Yes, hackers attacked our systems, admits IEBC &ldquo;We have had discussions and our focus is now to have Nairobi under JP,&rdquo; JP head of Secretariat Raphael Tuju said. On Thursday, Sonko claimed there was a plot to lock him out of JP primaries. He claimed a senior Office for the President official and senior JP official had conspired to have him out after his certificate of good conduct was delayed. Sonko said he would not be bullied and would only accept it if the voters reject him.