KISUMU, KENYA: Governor Jack Ranguma on Tuesday launched Mobisol&rsquo;s flagship store in Kisumu in a bid to tap into the rural market with off-grid solar systems. Ranguma said the launch affirms success of solar public-private partnerships, which benefit the community as a whole. He urged the public to consider solar energy to help save on energy related expenditure for an improved lifestyle. &ldquo;The biggest household expenditure of rural communities is kerosene. Additionally, with the growth of the real estate market in the country, I would like to urge contractors to consider installing solar panels, which are a clean, safe and renewable energy source,&rdquo; said Ranguma. &ldquo;This will not only help communities save on energy, but the diverse products create a source of income. For example, Kisumu fans of football can now enjoy watching matches on &nbsp;large solar powered television, while charging their phones,&rdquo; said Ranguma. Mobisol is a German company which combines solar energy with an affordable payment plan via mobile phone. ALSO READ: Senator Nyong'o and Governor Ranguma rivalry goes higher Speaking during the launch event, Mobisol&#39;s East Africa&rsquo;s CEO Henrik Axelsson noted that the company has invested heavily in innovation and research to enable customers&rsquo; access to high-quality products and a comprehensive user experience, citing the reliability and consistency of German technology over the years. &nbsp;&ldquo;Rural communities in Kenya continue to use unreliable fossil fuels like kerosene, which are not only harmful to the environment and people&rsquo;s health but are also costly to maintain - yet, solar energy is in abundance. Through Mobisol&rsquo;s top-notch innovative technology, off-grid households in Kenya can finally afford solar systems that are of high quality and powerful enough to meet their entire household and business needs. Kenyans can now enjoy a modern, comfortable lifestyle, improve their economic well-being and at the same time set new standards for worldwide sustainability,&rdquo; said Axelsson. The company, which retails directly to customers, services over 70,000 households in Rwanda, Kenya and Tanzania, with plans to open additional 20 stores in Kenya in 2017.