On the morning of January 23, 2017 Laura Kaika left the house to answer a call of nature before leaving for school. When she had not returned 30 minutes later, her brother went out to look for her &mdash; since they were getting late for school &mdash; but the 19-year-old was nowhere to be seen. At their home in Shikhambi Estate, Kakamega town Laura&rsquo;s books and school bag lies where she left them as the family tries to figure out what could have happened to their daughter. &ldquo;I have searched in the neighbouring counties, I have even gone to my home in Mumias and even checked with relatives but no one seems to know where she could have gone,&rdquo; her father, Brown Kasala, says. According to Brown, the turn of events is very uncharacteristic of the girl he term as God fearing, obedient and one who always informed her parents before she left home. He says her disappearance has thrown the family into disarray as they now spend sleepless nights trying to find their missing child. When she was last seen, Laura was wearing a grey school uniform and had brown sandals on her feet. She was also carrying a torch that Brown said his children would normally use when going to school. When it became apparent that Laura was nowhere to be seen, Brown says he reported her disappearance and recorded a statement at the Kakamega Police Station on January 31. Police have since commenced on the search which has so far borne no fruit. Laura&rsquo;s family is now left to pick up the pieces even as they wonder what could have prompted their daughter to disappear. &ldquo;As her father, I have done my best to play my role in her life especially making sure she never lacks anything in school. I would go there whenever she had a problem or when her teachers requested to see me and would try my best to pay her fees on time,&rdquo; he says. He says he was not taking the situation lightly, especially with the increased abduction cases. &ldquo;Some people say she might have eloped with a boy but I do not think so. My daughter was too respectful to do that and I am not going to stop looking for her. I am not losing hope,&rdquo; he says. Brown says his daughter had a vision for her future life and he, therefore, finds it difficult to believe that she could have thrown that away on a whim. &ldquo;Laura has been concentrating on her studies, she also led praise and worship at the Abraham Descendants Altar of Kenya and loved to lead her peers in youth projects. I am, therefore, pleading with the person holding her to please inform the nearest police station or get in touch with me,&rdquo; he says. To Laura, the distraught father has this to say: &ldquo;We all miss you and love you. If you can read this please let us know where you are, we are all worried, we need you to continue with your studies, be successful and be independent. Please come back home.&rdquo; Anyone with information on Laura&rsquo;s whereabouts should report to the nearest police station or write to us: [email&#160;protected], with the details. We will contact the family.