Three lawmakers have supported the deployment of the Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) to help restore peace and security in the volatile parts of the North Rift. MPs Robert Pukose (Endebess) and Wesley Korir (Cherangany)&nbsp; and Woman Representative Janet Nangabo welcomed President Uhuru Kenyatta&#39;s decision to deploy the soldiers, saying insecurity has affected the investment potential in the region. The legislators noted that it is only if law and order are restored that the region&#39;s economic opportunities can be fully tapped to help residents tackle poverty. &quot;We support the decision taken by the President to deploy KDF solders in the volatile regions. This is the only way marauding cattle rustlers and armed civilians can be tamed,&quot; said Dr Pukose. The lawmakers noted that illegal guns in the hands of civilians are a serious threat to security and peace among communities in the region. Speaking at Matumbei village, where a fire displaced 21 families, Pukose and Mr Korir said insecurity had hurt economic activities in several parts of the North Rift and that it was necessary that the government deploy KDF personnel to arrest the situation. ALSO READ: Kenya&rsquo;s North Rift still in agony as bandits make operation seem child&rsquo;s play &quot;We are perturbed by the continued killings of innocent people. It is wrong for civilians to use guns to harm other Kenyans. We support the deployment of KDF to help bring harmony among communities,&quot; said Pukose. Speaking separately in Kitale, Ms Nangabo said oil exploitation in some parts of North Rift may be affected by insecurity. &quot;There is no need for some Kenyans to spend sleepless nights, hunted by cattle rustlers. I support the deployment of KDF to end these senseless killings and theft of livestock,&quot; said Nangabo when she officiated at the opening of the 5G Hotel in Kitale. The MP warned politicians against supporting crime such as communal fighting to pursue their agendas. &quot;Leaders must play mature politics. We should not incite communities for the sake of votes. Kenyans should not support leaders engaged in divisive politics,&quot; she added.