The National Super Alliance will field one candidate for every elective seat in Nairobi, Governor Evans Kidero has said. Kidero said that the coalition partners from Wiper, ODM, Ford Kenya and the Amani National Congress have agreed to back one candidate for each of the seats right from the governor to the MCA positions. He said that the move was aimed at ensuring that the opposition coalition scoops as many seats as possible in the capital come the August 8 elections. &quot;It has already been agreed upon that Nairobi will conduct joint nominations and that we will have one candidate from the coalition in every position,&quot; he said. The city boss said that in 2013, elections the CORD coalition lost numerous seats to the Jubilee Alliance due to multiple fielding of candidates by the coalition parties. He confirmed that he would be the person to beat for the capital&#39;s governorship with Jonathan Mueke as his deputy citing that no other aspirant had emerged to challenge him. In 2013, CORD scooped 7 out of the 17 seats in Nairobi. The coalition however recaptured Mathare constituency in a bye election. In the County Assembly, ODM is however the majority with a total of 43 members against Jubilee&#39;s 42 out of a total 85 MCA&#39;s. ALSO READ: We are victims of the culture of claptrap and dead psyche In the recent past, there have however been contentions over the joint candidature primaries in NASA. Political party interests have made it impossible for the coalition to conduct joint nominations but it seems as if the NASA Principals have agreed to give special consideration to Nairobi county which is a must clinch for both Jubilee Party and NASA. Kidero was speaking at Garden Estate Secondary school Tuesday where he had gone to revert grabbed school land. Roysambu Member of Parliament, Waihenya Ndirangu said that the land had been forced to halt construction of classrooms after a private developer moved to court seeking orders that the school was shut down. &quot;No one has capacity to alienate public land for the interests of an individual. The grabbers had obtained titles from the defunct city council,&quot; said Ndirangu. Meanwhile, the governor claimed that politicians supporting Jubilee governor hopeful for Nairobi Peter &nbsp; ALSO READ: IEBC to notify public of technology glitches during polls