Mainstream political parties have crafted tough nomination rules while regulations for primaries by small parties have been tailored to attract aspirants. The nomination rules, which have been deposited with the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) and Registrar of Political Parties, are to be used for party nominations slated for next month. Some of the rules crafted by Jubilee give top party officials powers to revoke nomination certificates awarded to winning candidates elected through universal suffrage. Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) has opted for a hybrid of universal suffrage, consensus and direct nomination even as it zones the country into three regions. And methods adopted by Maendelelo Chap Chap (MCC) and Chama Cha Mashinani (CCM) are calculated to reap followers who are rejected by major parties. According to the revised Jubilee Party nomination rules, 2017, the National Executive Committee (NEC) has the powers to review a candidate&rsquo;s suitability and revoke the certificate. ALSO READ: Governors' show of might and opulence at Gachagua burial &ldquo;In addition and pursuant to the powers granted to it by party constitution, the NEC has the power pursuant to these rules to consider objections in respect of any candidate and on its motion to review the suitability of any person presented for party nomination before or after the nomination on the ground that the candidature of such person(s) is not in tandem with the party&rsquo;s principles and aspirations,&rdquo; says a section of Jubilee&rsquo;s nomination rules. Those who owe allegiance to a foreign State or are State officers or are acting in any State office will be disqualified from nomination in Jubilee. But the President, Deputy President, Governor, Deputy Governor, MP, Senator and Member of County Assembly (MCA) are exempted from such disqualification. Jubilee has also set tough rules related to violence during the nomination process. &ldquo;Any candidate who on nomination day either by himself, his agents or supporters engages, permits or condones any acts of violence, whatsoever and howsoever may be disqualified,&rdquo; the rules say. All aspirants seeking the Jubilee ticket must be prepared to go to the nominations as the party rules only provide for universal suffrage. There is no provision for direct nomination or consensus. Opposition chief Raila Odinga&rsquo;s Orange Party National Elections Board (NEB) will vet applicants interested in participating in the nominations. The party has zoned Kenya into three regions. Zone A counties include Wajir, Garissa, Mandera, Marsabit, Isiolo, Kitui, Makueni, Machakos, Embu, Bomet, Kericho, Nakuru and Uasin Gishu. ALSO READ: Mudavadi warns President Uhuru and DP Ruto on expenditure Zone B Counties include Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma, Busia, Kisumu, Siaya, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Narok, Kajiado, Mombasa, Kwale, Kilifi, Taita Taveta, Tana River, Lamu, Trans Nzioa, Nairobi, Turkana and Samburu. Kiambu, Murang&rsquo;a, Kirinyaga, Tharaka Nithi, Laikipia, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Meru, Nandi, Elgeyo Marakwet, Baringo and West Pokot counties are listed as Zone C where the party enjoys little support or no support at all. &ldquo;NEB may with the approval of the NEC directly nominate candidates using any other criteria in regard to Zone C as set out in second schedule,&rdquo; reads part of the nominations. The party also states that NEB shall conduct staggered nominations with regard to Zone B within a period of six months to the elections and its commissioners will directly oversee the nomination exercise in each of the electoral areas in Zone B. But the party also has stringent rules on candidates who bribe voters during nominations. Machakos Governor Afred Mutua&rsquo;s MCC has a provision that allows aspirants to be nominated on its ticket for all political seats only after being a member for three days. According to the nomination rules submitted to the Registrar of Political Parties Lucy Ndung&rsquo;u, those seeking to be nominated on an MCC ticket will have to sign and swear by the party&rsquo;s integrity and rapid development oath written in Kiswahili. ALSO READ: Former Mungiki leader Maina Njenga sues IEBC, Jubilee Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto&rsquo;s CCM favours direct nominations for parliamentary and county elections or a nomination exercise where there are more than one aspirant. Meru Governor Peter Munya&rsquo;s Party of National Unity (PNU) has specified the amount of money that should be paid to its national nomination dispute tribunal by those dissatisfied with nomination outcomes. Those seeking for vie for the governor&rsquo;s seat and want to contest nomination results will pay Sh70,000, Senate (Sh60,000), MP (Sh50,000) and MCA (Sh40,000).