Elgeyo Marakwet County Senator Kipchumba Murkomen has defended President Uhuru Kenyatta&#39;s recent display of fury saying the Head of State has been a victim of abuse from some leaders. Speaking in Sitotwo African Inland Church (AIC) on Sunday, Murkomen stated that the President has a mandate to restore and maintain order in national politics and leadership. The Senator said Governors are the centre of provocation towards the presidency, saying acts and utterances by Mombasa Governor Hassan Ali Joho and his Turkana counterpart Josephat Nanok against the President in different public events were demeaning the presidency. &quot;Some Governors have been recently trying to show off their might and build popularity through unorthodox means. The money devolved to the counties has blinded them and made them too proud to respect even the highest office in the land. The President has a right to respond when provoked especially through propagation of lies and he had to see the record straight, &ldquo;said Murkomen. He observed that President Kenyatta has been the most publicly insulted Head of State and like any other leader expressed his distaste for incitement of the public by the leaders. &ldquo;The Turkana Governor incited the public by stating that the President was robbing the locals the Oil treasure and directing resources associated with the exploitation to his community which is not right. All leaders should respect each other and focus on implementing their mandate because they will be accountable to the electorate,&quot; said Murkomen. His sentiments were echoed by an aspirant for Keiyo South Parliamentary seat Wilson Kipsang who said public insults among leaders contribute to instability within the electorate. ALSO READ: Jubilee MPs blame shooting incident on Raila's guards &quot;We need to embrace the politics of respect and truthfulness because leaders are people&#39;s choices. When a leader is distastefully abused their supporters may react and cause unrest. Let&#39;s embrace the best channels of addressing all issues concerning leadership,&rdquo; said Kipsang.