Unaitas General Manager Nyaga&nbsp; thagichu left, Chief Manager Risk and Compliance Martin Muhoho and Internal Manager Chief Manager Edwin Njeru following proceedings of the 24th AGM Nairobi, Kenya: Unaitas Sacco has defied a tough economic environment to record a Sh267.8 million profit for the 2016 financial year. Unaitas posted the profits, attributed to a cautious approach to lending and provisioning of loan losses in light of the tough lending environment. Unaitas also announced an increase in its asset base standing at Sh10.7 billion in assets as at the end of 2016. &nbsp;On the other hand, member&rsquo;s deposits increased by 20 per cent to stand at Sh6.46 billion from Sh5.38 billion over the same period. During the same year, the lender invested heavily on a robust ICT infrastructure that is likely to propel it to profits, as it envisage increasing business efficiency. The Sacco&rsquo;s leadership said that the strategic approach to improve the quality of the loan book resulted in slower disbursement of credit to members as well as providing for higher levels of provisioning, which was done to reflect the state of the general economy that was challenging in 2016. &ldquo;As a responsible and sustainable business we decided to improve the quality of our loan book and this had an impact on our profitability. Going forward we intend to maintain this strategy that focuses on loan book quality, increasing non-funded income and cost management,&rdquo; said Unaitas Chairman Joseph Kabugu while addressing members at Kenol, Murang&rsquo;a County at the Sacco&rsquo;s 24th Annual General Meeting (AGM). Mr. Kabugu added that Unaitas plans to marshal more deposits and grow its membership through branch expansion and marketing campaigns that will attract a wider and diverse membership base. For the 2017 financial year Unaitas plans to open at least seven new branches across the country and the management has already identified Meru, Kisii, Kisumu, Eldoret and Embu as five towns where the Sacco will set up shop. These new branches are expected to boost membership and deposit mobilisation. The Board has additionally decided to roll out agency banking as a means of further increasing accessibility of financial services and convenience to our members. &ldquo;We have taken this multi-pronged approach to cushion Unaitas from shocks associated with the General Election, interest rate cap-regime and a severe drought. These are factors that are expected to have an impact on the general economy and as such the Board is cognizant that Unaitas is not an exception,&rdquo; said Mr. Kabugu. The Board has recommended a dividend of Ksh192 million for the year which represents 7 per cent of investment shares.