Sound policies, not&nbsp;ethnicity, will decide the outcome of the next General Election, Opposition leader Raila Odinga has said. Raila said voters had learnt hard lessons in the past four years of Jubilee rule and they would not make another mistake of voting along tribal lines. &quot;Kenyans have learnt... the need to remain united...,&quot; he said when he received&nbsp;Baringo senatorial aspirant Kipchumba Ayabei and other politicians who ditched Jubilee Party. Raila said Jubilee&#39;s failure to tackle insecurity, rising cost of living and the health crisis had angered and affected everyone. The doctors have been on strike for the past 87 days while university lecturers resorted to industrial action to push the Government to sign a collective bargaining agreement. Odinga accused the Government of acting too late in the Baringo-West Pokot conflict that has displaced hundreds of people. ALSO READ: Electoral systems must be secured He said recruiting Kenya police reservists when lives had already been lost did not add value. &quot;This is a clear indication the Jubilee government has failed in its core mandate to protect Kenyans and their properties,&quot; said Odinga. He said the Government needed to investigate the sources of conflict with a view to bringing the perpetrators to book. Earlier in the afternoon, Raila and other National Super Alliance (NASA) leaders - Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang&#39;ula - met the members of the Diplomatic Community from the European Union, United States and Canada who constitute the Donor Group on Elections. They discussed the electoral agency&#39;s preparedness for the August 8, polls. Sources within NASA secretariat intimated that the envoys wanted to know the state of preparedness of the opposition, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission and how they could help solve outstanding challenges. The discussions also focused on developments in the Opposition including the formation of NASA. ALSO READ: Electoral systems must be secured The meeting took place at the request of the group as part of a routine consultation between political parties and other players in the electoral process. Meanwhile, Kilifi Woman Representative Aisha Jumwa Katana has been taken ill. Ms Jumwa is among eight MPs who were detained by police over incitement and hate speech allegations mid last year. Speaking to The Standard on phone ODM Secretary General Senator Agnes Zani confirmed the legislator was in hospital but was in a stable condition. &quot;We are waiting for her to recuperate until she gets back on her feet. We will get full details in due course,&quot; said Zani.