Mbita MP Milly Odhiambo speaks during a CORD Rally at Uhuru Park, Nairobi. (Photo: Boniface Okendo) She is arguably one of the most outspoken members of the 11th Parliament. She spits fire and shoots straight from the hip. She takes on men at no notice and is ready to go dirty and bizarre without warning. In fact, Millie Grace Akoth Odhiambo has hit the headlines several times whenever Parliament is discussing sensitive and controversial topics. She has threatened to strip naked, walked barefoot and even confronted President Uhuru Kenyatta with unsavoury and provocative words. But the abrasive legislator, who is equally fiery outside Parliament, is now walking a tightrope as she faces her voters in Mbita for a re-election bid. The MP is facing a crowded field, even though she is cutting a figure of a popular leader who will have little difficulties in elbowing her way back to the august House. Four aspirants are angling to send her home in the August 8 elections. They include Homa Bay County Assembly Public Service Board Commissioner Judy Kamaria, Information Technology (IT) specialist David Okelo, businessman Jim Akali and lawyer Humphrey Obach. All of them are jostling for the ODM ticket. ALSO READ: Here is why the Opposition will not want polls this year Already, intense campaigns have started, targeting the constituency&#39;s vote-rich wards of Mfangano, Rusinga, Kasgunga, Gembe and Lambwe. Mbita is a key constituency in Nyanza, previously represented in Parliament by Osingo Migure, Alphonce Okuku, Peter Nyakiamo, Omolo Opere and Otieno Kajwang, before it was split into two &ndash; Suba and Mbita.&nbsp; It has more than 55,000 registered voters. A majority of residents rely on fishing as their main economic activity. Area residents and opinion leaders say improvement of the fishing sector will be the key agenda in electing their next MP. According to local opinion leaders, the contest is shaping up to be a two-horse race between Millie and Kamaria. A number of the locals who spoke to The Standard say there are high chances either of the two will be elected. Millie was born in Rusinga ward but has built a home in Lambwe ward. She was born in Mfangano ward and traces her origin to Rusinga ward. Opinion leaders say she has established strongholds in Mfangano, Gembe and Kasgunga wards. Although Millie enjoys the benefit of incumbency, observers say a combined force of all the aspirants will give her a run for her money in the hunt for the constituency&#39;s votes. ALSO READ: Pick Raila for NASA and Uhuru will be back Millie told The Standard she will be riding on her development record to retain the seat she first won in 2013 after the long serving area MP, the late Otieno Kajwang went for the senatorial seat. &quot;My record speaks for itself. I am the only MP for Mbita who has started development projects on the island, which has been forgotten for long,&quot; she said. She said she was an ODM loyalist and defender both in and outside Parliament. Kepher Ogola, area opinion leader said: &quot;We have a number of young men and women who have acquired scholarships and other support through partnership of Kamaria and her development partners. These have enhanced her popularity in this constituency.&quot; Others say Millie&#39;s outspoken nature could work to her advantage. &quot;Millie has been firm in admonishing the Jubilee administration in its wrongdoings, besides presenting Bills to Parliament,&quot; said Edwin Kasienyo. The constituency is inhabited by the fishing communities and future of the fishing industry and dwindling fish stocks in the lake is likely to be a campaign agenda. ALSO READ: Imams laud Jubilee Party for aspirants vetting Many fishermen have lost their sources of livelihood following the invasion of the lake by the water hyacinth and the dip in the population of fish in the lake. But there is also the aspect of Opposition leader Raila Odinga&#39;s name taking centre stage in the race for the parliamentary seat. It has now become evident that aspirants are associating themselves with Raila to get political mileage. Kamaria expressed concern over the manner in which some of her colleagues use Raila&#39;s name to get political mileage and discredit their rivals. &quot;Some people are propagating rumours that they stand a better chance of being elected because they are closest to Raila. Let them stop intimidating us because I am also close to him,&quot; said Kamaria. She told the residents to focus on policies of the aspirants rather than any form of theatrics somebody might be performing in the area. &quot;I have clear policies on improving economic prosperity of the people of Mbita besides legislative roles. Promoting education will also is also a key agenda for the future of our young people,&quot; she said. A number of the contenders have now resorted to arguing their policies by narrating how close they are to Raila. ALSO READ: Clans back ex-NHIF boss for Marsabit governor Obach said being close to Raila is good but it cannot work well for a candidate. &quot;We all have to be close to Raila but it is wrong for some candidates to propagate rumours that it can enable them win the nomination. ODM has promised us free and fair nominations,&quot; said Obach. The aspirants will battle for 50,500 voters, according to the area Elections Co-ordinator Erastus Orwa.