Another Standard journalist has expressed fear for his life after he received threats from people suspected to be police officers. Osinde Obare, who is based in Kitale, Trans Nzoia County, said the officers stopped him on his way home and issued threats over an article he published on March 17. This comes barely five days after Siaya-based Standard Journalist Isaiah Gwengi was beaten by Administration Police officers and detained overnight. &quot;On Friday night, after alighting from a matatu on my way home, two men riding on a motorbike stopped me. I suspect they were police officers from Kiminini Patrol Base or their agents because they asked me why I was out to ruin their reputation,&quot; said Mr Obare. One of the men told him he was unhappy with the way he had been writing negative stories on officers at the patrol base and warned him of dire consequences if he continued offending them. &quot;He said I had twice written false and bad stories about them and they had been looking for me to find out why I was soiling their reputation. They told me this was the last warning and that if I disobeyed they would act,&quot; said Obare. ALSO READ: Deputy Governor Ruth Odinga demands more security officers On March 17, the journalist wrote a story about the officers involvement in criminal activities following an outcry from the public; a move that saw several officers from the base transferred. In the article, Kitale OCPD Jackson Mwenga said the officers who had been transferred from the base would be investigated. Another senior police officer from Kitale Police Station was sent to take charge of the base. &quot;We have moved a senior officer to run the patrol base. We will not allow our officers who took an oath to protect the public to work in cahoots with criminal gangs,&quot; Mr Mwenga was quoted in the article. The officers were on the spot after their Administration Police Counterparts accused them of taking bribes from illegal liquor dens and criminals instead of arresting the suspects. Obare reported the matter at the Kitale Police Station on Saturday. &quot;Maybe people are out to intimidate you because of your work but it is good you ensure your safety,&quot; OCS Daniel Kadei who promised to investigate the incident said. ALSO READ: Policeman shoots dead girlfriend, survives suicide attempt