Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua&#39;s Maendeleo Chap Chap&nbsp;over the weekend pitched camp in Kisumu. Mr Mutua dispatched a team led by Nominated Senator Emma Mbaru to woo candidates who may be uncomfortable with the forthcoming Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) and Jubilee Party nominations. Ms Mbaru met a group of political activists in the area and announced plans to hold a major rally in the lakeside town. Mbaru, who quit JP to run for the Rabai parliamentary seat on a Chap Chap ticket, said the party was keen to break the mindset that Nyanza region was an ODM stronghold by fielding candidates for Member of the County Assembly and parliamentary positions. &quot;We need to end this mentality that the country is zoned - this is what derails development. When we do not allow small parties to offer alternative governance, we are part of the rot that ails our development,&quot; she said. &quot;Kisumu must no longer be seen as an ODM fort. It is time we started voting for leaders based on the merit of their vision and development goals.&quot; ALSO READ: Remembering pioneer author and politician, Grace Ogot She urged residents to allow all parties to sell their policies so they could decide which the best one for them was. &quot;Kenya is not for JP and National Super Alliance (NASA) alone. It is these small parties that will field the best candidates to represent your interests in the national and county assemblies,&quot; she urged. She was accompanied by former Nyanza Jubilee co-ordinator Mercy Javan, who has also joined MCC. Ms Javan said she would steer the registration of new members into the party. Dr Mutua has said the party will field candidates for all elective seats across the country. Last month, MCC reaped big from Jubilee after receiving Tharaka Nithi and Embu leaders into the party. Several MCAs together with Mbeere North MP Charles Njagagua, Embu Senator Lenny Kivuti and Deputy Governor Dorothy Nditi defected to Mutua&#39;s party. ALSO READ: Senator Dan Mwazo dismisses claims of being bought by Jubilee Party &nbsp;