The Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) has announced tough rules to curb malpractices during its nominations slated for next month. Party National Elections Board (NEB) chairperson Judith Pareno said the new rules would help curb hooliganism and fraud. &quot;We have amended our party constitution to stagger the nomination exercise. In the past, we used to do it in one day and this didn&#39;t allow us time to tackle the malpractices. We will now abide by the rules and those found to flout them will be disqualified,&quot; She said. Ms Pareno pointed out that in the staggered schedule, some days had been set aside for conflict resolution. &quot;On the nomination day, we will swap party commissioners and presiding officers to different parts of the country. This will help in fighting corruption and favouritism,&quot; she said. She revealed that the party had hired three officials at the county and five at the constituency levels to help ensure everything goes according to plan. ALSO READ: Jubilee, ODM show of political might as President Uhuru tours region &quot;We have hired two security officers for each polling station. We will also publish a list of our members who must be voters at the polling centre to participate. Those found engaging in violence will be automatically disqualified,&quot; Pareno said. She added that the party&#39;s nomination certificates would only be signed by herself, Secretary General Robert Amunga and Executive Director Oduor Ongwen. &quot;We have deposited our signatures with the Registrar of Political Parties,&quot; she said. Time table for primaries Friday April 7 1. Bungoma 2. Busia ALSO READ: Trio seeking ODM ticket to unseat coalition partner in Kanduyi 3. Machakos Sunday April 9 1. Kisii 2. Nyamira 3. Samburu 4. Trans Nzoia Tuesday April 11 ALSO READ: Tension in Shinyalu after death of ODM official 1. Mombasa 2. Kilifi 3. Kwale Thursday April 13 1. Tana River 2. Siaya 3. Kisumu Saturday April 15 ALSO READ: ODM activists detained in Voi during President Uhuru Kenyatta's rally 1. Turkana 2. Kakamega Monday April 17 1. Kajiado 2. Taita Taveta 3. Narok Wednesday April 19 1. Homa Bay 2. Lamu ALSO READ: Sospeter Ojaamong to fight for ODM ticket as more aspirants seek to unseat him 3. Migori Friday April 21 1. Nakuru 2. Uasin Gishu 3. Vihiga Saturday April 22 1. Nairobi 2. Makueni 3. Garissa