Lydia Ntimama, daughter of former Cabinet minister William ole Ntimama, has ditched Jubilee Party for Chama Cha Mashinani. The defection comes weeks after Ms Lydia threatened to pull out of the party if her concerns over fair play in nominations were not addressed. Weeks before he died, her father, Mr Ntimama, led a delegation of people from the Maasai community to State House where he declared a mass exodus from Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) to Jubilee. Among the delegates was his daughter and political heir, Lydia. Her decision to join the Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto-led political party has taken many by surprise. She contested the Narok Woman Representative position in 2013 on an ODM ticket and lost to the incumbent Soipan Tuya. She had asked Jubilee to assure her that the nomination process was going to be free, arguing that some aspirants seemed to be favoured by the Jubilee leadership. ALSO READ: Governor Ruto declares war on Jubilee in member listing &quot;We are in Jubilee to stay but if the party will not assure us that the nomination exercise will be free and fair, they should tell us early we quit,&quot; said Lydia recently at the burial of Nairobi Speaker Alex Magelo&#39;s father. The &#39;Maa King&#39;s&#39; daughter was set to renew battle with the incumbent for the Jubilee Party ticket but her exit now changes the pattern. Others who have expressed interests to unseat Ms Tuya include Rebecca Tonkei, who is vying on an ODM ticket. Since the time Ntimama asked the Maasai to support Jubilee, President Uhuru Kenyatta has maintained close contacts with the family. Ntimama&#39;s elder son, Amos, was recently appointed chairman of the Private Security Regulatory Authority. &quot;I was taken to Jubilee by my father but upon reaching there, I saw a &#39;monster&#39; and I had to retreat. I am now in CCM and this is where I will fight for my community from,&quot; Lydia said when she was received by Governor Ruto at Olopirik in Narok West. A close relative of the Ntimamas, former Transport and Licensing Board chairman Hassan ole Kamwaro, who was among those who brokered the deal to have Lydia join CCM, said she has the family&#39;s blessings to join the party of her choice. ALSO READ: Kanu and CCM team up against DP Ruto in Rift Valley