Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto has said his Chama Cha Mashinani (CCM) party will only support a presidential candidate who commits to allocate more resources to counties. Speaking at Kaborok trading centre in Belgut constituency, where he received defectors from Jubilee, the governor said his party had received an offer of 47 per cent to the counties from a major political party but was still shopping around for a higher deal. Mr Ruto is pushing to have 50 per cent of the country&#39;s revenue collection go to county governments. &quot;We want an equal share of the resources between the national and the county governments. CCM is ready to sign a memorandum of understanding because we want the sharing of the resources to be within the law and eliminate the situation where resources are allocated according to senior government leaders,&quot; he said. The former Council of Governors chairman added that an enhanced package for the counties was urgently required for the construction of roads and learning and health institutions among other development projects. &quot;A fair sharing of the county&#39;s resources will also allow the counties to grant soft loans to local entrepreneurs and offer a monthly stipend to unemployed youths as well as Sh2,000-5,000 to elderly citizens,&quot; said Ruto. ALSO READ: Keep off Narok politics, Bomet Governor Ruto told The governor, accompanied by host of political aspirants seeking the party&#39;s ticket, said Bomet is a CCM zone and that Jubilee was the &quot;opposition party&quot; in the area. &quot;In Bomet county, Chama Cha Mashinani is the leading party. The party is set to gain more strength after the August General Election as it is poised to capture many seats at county assemblies, Parliament, as well as the Senate,&quot; said Ruto. The South Rift leader also asked the Kalenjin to be bold and only support leaders committed to transforming their social, economic, and political welfare. &quot;Some Rift Valley politicians view you only as voting machines. That is why despite participating overwhelmingly in all the elections the country has held since it attained independence, the region has lagged behind,&quot; said Ruto. The governor asked local residents to support his party.