BUSIA, KENYA:&nbsp; Busia County is now targeting to grow revenue collection in the next financial year by 30 percent following the go-live of CountyPro&reg;, an online-based revenue management system supplied by Strathmore University. All the unstructured county revenue sources including parking, market cess and trailer parking in all the sub-counties in Busia County are now fully automated.&nbsp; Similarly, all the structured payments such as single business permits, general billings, property rates in all the sub-counties in Busia County are also fully automated.&nbsp; &ldquo;As a result, we expect Busia County to maintain an upward trend in revenue collection,&rdquo; said Strathmore University&rsquo;s Head of CountyPro Tirus Wanyoike. Governor Sospeter Ojaamong has termed the completion of the project a key development that will &ldquo;help the government seal leakages and inject new efficiency&rdquo; into county revenue operations. &ldquo;Busia has been looking forward to the setting up of this major ICT infrastructure and revenue system to deliver predictability in revenue collection and management. We expect this to positively impact the delivery of services to our people,&rdquo; said Governor Ojaamong. Confirming the development, county executive committee member in charge of Finance and ICT Lenard Obimbira said his department now expects a sweeping rise in revenue. His office has revised targets for own source revenue from Sh300M to Sh400M in the Financial year 2016/17 -an increase of 30 percent. Busia further expects to hit a 300 percent growth target of Sh1 Billion in the next two years. Busia County now joins the number of counties that have successfully deployed the robust online system through Strathmore seeking to increase internal efficiency, access instantaneous business intelligence and enhance local revenue.&nbsp; In Kiambu County where the CountyPro project was completed two years ago, revenue collected has been growing year on year, winning the county and Governor multiple awards from the Commission for Revenue Allocation (CRA). Kiambu&rsquo;s own source revenue grew by 60 percent in 2015 to account for nearly 7 percentof the Sh 33.74B in revenue collected by all counties. ALSO READ: Licence hitch denies university cash from power sales &ldquo;We want to replicate the success achieved in Kiambu here in Busia,&rdquo; said Busia County&rsquo;s Director of County Revenue Management Services Antony Opondo.&nbsp;