Meru Governor Peter Munya has rejected Opposition leader Raila Odinga&#39;s endorsement. The Council of Governors chairman said his PNU party supports President Uhuru Kenyatta&#39;s re-election. Yesterday, Raila stirred controversy when he endorsed the re-election of Mr Munya, who faces opposition for the governor&#39;s seat from Senator Kiraitu Murungi, among others. Immediately after Raila announced the Opposition&#39;s support for Munya, the governor swiftly sought to distance himself from the Opposition&#39;s National Super Alliance (NASA). Munya said his Party of National Unity (PNU) was fully behind the re-election of President Kenyatta. &quot;PNU is not in any coalition and will not join any and our official position is that we are supporting the re-election of President Kenyatta. That position is known by all and sundry and has not changed,&quot; Munya said in a brief statement. ALSO READ: Rosemary Odinga flown to SA for treatment Raila, who spoke highly of Munya during a press conference in Meru, later joined his colleagues in NASA in an extensive tour of Tharaka Nithi County. &quot;Governor Munya is my friend. He truly believes in devolution and we have a lot in common. He has been very passionate about pushing this devolution agenda and that is why I think he should be re-elected,&quot; Raila said. On his part, Mr Kiraitu chided the Opposition and dismissed its forays in the perceived Jubilee stronghold, saying the leaders should not mistake the crowds at his rallies for support. Kiraitu said the region is behind Uhuru. But in what could be a telling sign that the Opposition is determined in making forays in the Jubilee areas, the four principals were hosted in Tharaka Nithi by one of Jubilee stalwarts, Senate Majority Leader Kithure Kindiki&#39;s brother, Isaiah Kindiki. Prof Kindiki, who is a NASA supporter, said Jubilee had failed the people of Tharaka Nithi who in 2013 voted for Uhuru and Ruto to the last man. &quot;Jubilee wants you to wear a specific uniform to fit in but NASA welcomes diversity. Their philosophy is to capture diverse cultures of Kenya and bring them together&lrm;,&quot; Kindiki said. He was, however, quick to add that he did not have any differences with his brother, Kithure, but they merely held divergent views on who should be President of the country. ALSO READ: Devolution dividend still within grasp for Kenyans Kiraitu said Raila got crowds because he is an entertainer and cautioned residents against believing the &#39;empty rhetoric&#39; that punctuates his speeches. The senator claimed the Opposition was attempting to incite the residents on the miraa issue as disgruntled farmers cry over lost livelihoods as a result of the ban in the European markets.