The county assembly wants the government to stop further recruitment in the health sector until a staff rationalisation is undertaken. MCAs accused the executive of irregularly hiring staff and called for a forensic audit of the payroll. The also accused the County Public Service Board (CPSB) of going on an employment spree without caring about the budgetary implications. They complained the county government had refused to evaluate the actual staffing needs in the sector characterised by a weak financial system. In a joint report, Health, Budget and Appropriation committees said the health sector gulps 42 per cent of the county&#39;s recurrent budget, raising fears of existence of ghost workers. MCAs, in a motion moved by Thomas Kigen (Kaptarakwa) and seconded by Christopher Kibor (Arror), also wants CPSB to withdraw the power it had entrusted the department with. ALSO READ: Nyeri County Assembly requests AG Muigai to expedite swearing in of Deputy Governor &quot;The powers have been abused and turned into a conduit for irregular employment. Any recruitment done outside the law is irregular and the committee declares a repudiation on the hiring,&quot; Kigen said yesterday. He said the officials concerned must also be held responsible for the 95 employees irregularly employed. It has emerged CPSB cannot give an account of the employees, in terms of job description. &quot;The assembly is alarmed by a rapid rise in budgetary allocation for personnel emoluments in the sector. It is shocking the sub-county headquarters has become the hiding grounds for staff without designations. They are paid outside the stipulated system following a head count the joint committee four months ago,&quot; he said. He said senior payroll officers have been colluding to pay salaries to non-existent workers noting there are staff paid under the health department yet they work in other units. Kigen faulted the sector for not developing a comprehensive casual labour policy in accordance with the laid standards, including insurance cover and non-adherence to the minimum national wage guidelines. &nbsp; ALSO READ: Bungoma County Assembly in Sh37 million insurance &lsquo;fraud&rsquo;