The row over ownership of a 25,000-acre land associated with former nominated MP the late Mark Too, deepened after owners of parcels within the expansive farm threatened legal redress to stop a group of squatters from invading it. Last month, Sirikwa squatters won a landmark case they had filed against Too over the ownership of the land in Kapseret Constituency in Uasin Gishu County. But now, residents of Kapseret under Ngeria/Pioneer block will move to court to block the ruling ordering them to vacate the land estimated to be worth Sh100 billion. Through their lawyer Kham Lagat, the 30,000 residents have expressed disappointment with the court ruling. &quot;I am here on an invitation by the residents to offer legal advice and guide them on the way forward concerning the outcome of the judgment delivered on February 9,&quot; said Mr Lagat. The residents have decided that they are going to appeal the judgment and find other avenues of expressing their dissatisfaction within the legal mechanism. ALSO READ: Court stops squatters from taking over Mark Too's land Speaking yesterday during a meeting at Ngara falls area in Kapseret Sub-County, Mr Lagat said that the residents will take legal action within a very short time owing to the urgency of the matter. &quot;This is a matter which has attracted public interest and it needs to be addressed with the seriousness that it deserves,&quot; he said, adding the squatters were not able to prove the issue of possession of the piece of land. The court in its ruling, the residents argue, &#39;blundered&#39; by including the entire parcel of the land in the disputed land case matter between the 800 squatters and the deceased MP. They said that they bought a section of expansive land formerly owned by East African Tanning and Extract Company (EATEC) Ltd in Eldoret in 2,000 as individuals and groups before the firm wound up its operation. Ezekiel Mibey, a resident of Kapseret said that he had stayed on his piece of land he bought 17 years ago without any problems. &quot;I was compensated by the government after I forfeited my land in Kipkenyo to use as a sewage for Eldoret town. I went to EATEC and bought a 100-acre plot and now I am told to vacate. Will I move to the sewer or live by the road side,&quot; he paused. He implored the government to intervene and help resolve the matter. ALSO READ: Mark Too's family seeks damages from Eldoret lawyer