&nbsp; Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang&rsquo;i has asked head teachers to ensure school rules are enforced. Dr Matiang&rsquo;i said the government will deal firmly with school managers who fail to protect learners under their care. &ldquo;We will confront the issue with a measure of ruthlessness,&rdquo; Dr Matiang&rsquo;i said. He said head teachers must take responsibility for what is happening in their institutions and&nbsp; noted that weekend tuition was prohibited. &ldquo;The saddest thing about this is that teacher&rsquo;s studied educational psychology during their training. Children should be left to go to church and spend their time with families over the weekends,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: Higher education capture by the elite hurting quality of learning and grade Matiang&rsquo;i said rules that protect children must be enforced. &ldquo;Discuss the rules with the students, as well as the character traits that are embodied and built by each rule. Be sure to reinforce good behaviour and character through praise or a system of rewards,&rdquo; he said. He also called on the teachers to be good examples worth emulation by the leaner. &ldquo;Be sure to be a good example yourself as well. We need to make an effort to point out positive character role models in history, literature, science and the arts. We need to deliberately teach about people that our students can emulate,&rdquo; said Matiang&rsquo;i. He said the classroom should be firmly established on a foundation of respect. &ldquo;Self-respect and respect for others are the basis of all other positive character traits.&nbsp; Negativity and abuse of any kind should not be tolerated,&rdquo; said Matiang&rsquo;i. The Ministry of Education quality assurance report on bullying cases at Alliance Boys High School shocked the sector, leading to suspension of the principal. ALSO READ: Report: Quality of Kenyan graduates from public universities wanting Matiang&rsquo;i was addressing about 450 delegates from all over Kenya including Garissa, where the Catholic Church runs a school which serves non-Christians This is the third conference for these Catholic Educational institutions with the first one held in 2015 when the association was launched. CAPEIA brings together nursery schools, primary, high school and colleges run by the Catholic Church in Kenya.&nbsp; &nbsp;