Representatives of political parties have accused the electoral agency of unwillingness to engage them in polls management. Members of the Political Parties Liaison Committee (PPLC) stormed the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) offices on Tuesday, claiming poll officials had failed to turn up for a meeting planned to discuss electoral time-lines. PPLC accused IEBC of interfering with electoral time-lines without consultation. The meeting was meant to assure the parties that IEBC was on course with set time-lines. But IEBC through its communications manager Andrew Limo said the commission had agreed to have an engagement with the committee but were yet to agree on details. &quot;We had agreed to a number of engagements but we were yet to get to the details. We certainly would be happy to meet our clients but the meetings have to be structured and with understanding from both parties. We will work with them closely to bring clarity on the electoral process,&quot; said Mr Limo. ALSO READ: Ignore court order on ballot papers tender, Board tells IEBC Led by its chairman Philip Obonyo, PPLC claimed it waited for IEBC Chief Executive Officer Ezra Chiloba and his Deputy Betty Sungura Nyabuto at a Nairobi hotel before they decided to force their way to the commission&#39;s offices in Nairobi. &quot;We had agreed to have a meeting and Mr Chiloba confirmed. On Monday when our chairman called the commission over the meeting, they did not pick his calls. He went to the offices and they said they did not have money for a venue. PPLC sacrificed to pay for a venue,&quot; said Benedict Wachira, PPLC Secretary for internal and external affairs. &quot;We were surprised that they failed to turn up even after Chiloba had confirmed to us that he would attend,&quot; said Mr Wachira. IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati was absent when the group stormed the offices. They found IEBC Vice-Chairperson Connie Maina, whom they engaged for close to an hour. Ms Maina later excused herself to consult with other officers at the commission. When she came back, her explanation failed to convince the officials. They later agreed to give her up to 5pm. ALSO READ: Ignore court order on ballot papers tender, Board tells IEBC The commission later said: &quot;We have agreed to meet soon with political parties to comprehensively discuss all time-lines affecting candidates and parties.&quot; Earlier in the day, PPLC had sent a message that they would have a joint press briefing after the meeting. But when journalists arrived at Anniversary Towers, they were turned away by officers who said IEBC had not called a press briefing. The officers said if PPLC planned to have a briefing they would have to look for another venue.