NASA co-principal Raila Odinga has said the rising political temperatures in the alliance was a creation of Jubilee. Raila said the recent outburst by National Assembly Minority Leader Francis Nyenze was a plan by Jubilee to have NASA disintegrate but maintained that the Opposition leaders were inseparable. The ODM leader said he was in close contact with Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka. On Wednesday, Mr Nyenze said the Wiper party &ldquo;is tired&rdquo; of endless meetings to iron out contentious issues in NASA and would no longer participate in the 12-member National Coordinating Committee (NCC) meetings. Addressing Kisii town residents at the end of the two-day Lake Region Health Conference, Raila said no amount of intimidation would stop the Opposition from crossing over to Canaan. &ldquo;Jubilee plans will not succeed. Kenyan youths strongly believe in NASA to take them to the next level of economic gains. We are ready to deliver the third and final liberation in this country,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: Detectives take Joho's signature and handwriting specimens The Opposition leader hit out at the Jubilee administration, accusing President Uhuru Kenyatta of failing to fulfil his campaign promises, adding that every sector of the economy was on the verge of collapse. He said life was becoming increasingly expensive, with most households unable to provide basic needs, yet most government officials were embezzling public funds through corrupt dealings. &ldquo;Industries are collapsing with several facing strikes because of poor pay for professionals. Thousands of youths continue to languish at home because they lack jobs. The President and his deputy have ears but have failed to listen to the cries of Kenyans,&rdquo; he said. He alleged that Uhuru postponed his western Kenya region tour because he had failed to fulfil his promises. &ldquo;Their days are numbered and we are ready to offload the baggage that is causing anguish and pain among Kenyans. We are ready for the political duel,&rdquo; he said. The Opposition leader also accused Jubilee of failing to deliver school laptops within the 100 days it had earlier promised. Raila claimed that NASA was ahead by two million votes against their competitors and insisted that all the Opposition wanted was fair and free elections. ALSO READ: Keep the peace; Uhuru, Raila are friends He said the alliance would &ldquo;adopt&rdquo; every polling station on voting day to thwart any rigging attempts. He said NASA would pay youths to guard polling stations. Raila also blamed Uhuru for Governor Hassan Joho&rsquo;s tribulations.