Opposition chief Raila Odinga has said he is not interested in a coalition government, as claimed by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Raila also maintained that the National Super Alliance (NASA) will not go into an election overseen by some staff of the electoral agency, whom he termed as &quot;criminals who belong in jail&quot;. ALSO READ: Judges have earned themselves permanent place of shame, DP Ruto says &quot;We are not interested in a nusu mkate (coalition) government. We want the whole thing and we know we won the presidential polls and we will win this election very early. We cannot share power with thieves,&quot; said Raila on Sunday. Prayer service Speaking at a thanksgiving prayer service in Nairobi together with NASA co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka and Musalia Mudavadi, Raila defended the Supreme Court over its petition verdict, which has been criticised by Jubilee Party leaders. While addressing a rally in Nakuru on Saturday, President Kenyatta said Raila knows he will get a humiliating defeat in the fresh election and wants to get to power through the backdoor. Uhuru and his deputy, William Ruto, claimed that demands by Raila that the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) be disbanded were a ploy to cause a protracted controversy to avoid an election and force a coalition government. But Raila hailed the Supreme Court ruling, saying it was not only good for the country but the continent and the world. &quot;The ruling by the Supreme Court has shown that nobody will ever again strangle democracy in Kenya. The court did justice to Kenya. They wanted to steal our victory but God refused. Electoral fraud has gone on in this country for far too long,&quot; said Raila. Exuded confidence ALSO READ: What next for &lsquo;disgraced&rsquo; IEBC Addressing hundreds of supporters outside St Stephen&#39;s Church on Jogoo Road, the Orange party leader exuded confidence that he would triumph in the fresh poll pitting him against President Kenyatta. Kalonzo said wisdom prevailed in the Supreme Court to nullify President Kenyatta&#39;s win. &quot;We have been given a second chance to prove that Kenyans voted for us. This time round its Raila-Kalonzo versus Uhuru and Ruto. We ask you not to get tired and vote for us resoundingly,&quot; he said. The NASA presidential candidate said Africa is one of the richest continents in the world, yet it is the poorest because of bad governance and wanton theft by its leaders. At the same time, NASA leaders have called on IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati to ensure that those who were involved in election irregularities face the law and are sacked. Speaking at Masinde Muliro grounds in Huruma, Nairobi yesterday, Raila told President Uhuru Kenyatta not to force Kenyans to work with disgraced IEBC officials. &quot;IEBC CEO Ezra Chiloba and his team colluded with Jubilee to steal the elections. We will go to the elections with a fresh team. Uhuru should not dictate to us as he is not above the law. Kenyans are bigger than him,&quot; Raila told his supporters. ALSO READ: Secrets of night that gave Raila court win Musalia Mudavadi said IEBC should not work with Al Ghurair, Printing and Publishing, the Dubai-based company that printed the ballot papers for the August 8 elections. Moses Wetang&#39;ula called on Uhuru to respect the Supreme Court ruling, pointing out that Raila did the same in 2013.