Last week, former Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar called a press conference and launched a tirade on his once party boss Kalonzo Musyoka, calling him meek, weak, unfocused and unsure of whom to support. Even Opposition leader Raila Odinga did not escape his scathing attack. &ldquo;I do not want to ever go back to them to seek their support,&rdquo; Omar said. ALSO READ: Hassan Omar steps down as Wiper Party Secretary General Days earlier, he had resigned from the Wiper Party on whose ticket he vied for Mombasa governor&rsquo;s seat and lost to incumbent Hassan Joho. Before quitting the party, signs were on the wall that Omar&rsquo;s time in Wiper and the greater National Super Alliance (NASA) was on its death bed. Observers now believe his journey will end in the bosom of Jubilee Party, which was once, just as Kalonzo is now, in Omar&rsquo;s line of fire. On Wednesday, Omar fuelled speculation that he was open to enter or work with Jubilee when he told a TV show host that &ldquo;I have lived in politics and know there are no permanent enemies&rdquo;, when asked if he was about to decamp. Omar&rsquo;s problems revolve around his on-and-off friendship with Joho, which dates back to 2004 when they both vied in that year&rsquo;s by-election in Kisauni, through to Omar&rsquo;s resignation from ODM in 2013, followed by a brief truce held together by CORD top brass that was severed by the dismissal of the former senator&rsquo;s chief campaigner Walid Khalid, who Omar had fronted to Joho&rsquo;s cabinet in 2015. The difference between Omar and Joho can also be traced to emerging business rivalries within the city. Omar has been associated with the city&rsquo;s old money families whose businesses have outlived national political regimes. Joho, on the other hand, is a representation of new money with little allegiance to long established patronage. At the height of the anti-Jubilee wave in the Coast, a select group of businessmen approached Omar to push their agenda. This included going slow on the government of the day because the persistent antagonism of the State resulted to bad business for them. ALSO READ: NASA duo line up witnesses in petition The result was a shift in strategy. Instead of going after the amorphous national government, Omar locked in on a more realistic target, dealings within the county government and the Mombasa governor. It appeared to work for a while, and perceptions shifted, elevating Omar as not only a worthy challenger to Joho&rsquo;s throne, but a potential successor. It is believed that around 2015, wealthy businessmen, including many who financed Raila&rsquo;s 2013 presidential bid, decided to enter some kind of deal with Jubilee to safeguard their interests and thus support a candidate of their choice in Omar. Political forces &ldquo;Omar had political forces supporting him within Government,&rdquo; says Solomon Musyoka, a former councilor and a Wiper politician in Mombasa. However, Musyoka says the former senator did not show any indications of dumping Wiper where he wielded immense influence. Last week, Omar himself admitted to being funded by Coast businessmen. &ldquo;And when Raila is around, the same businessmen give him money,&rdquo; he said. And thus a wedge was driven between the once formidable tag team of the senator and the governor, who had for a short time made Mombasa impenetrable to Jubilee, was separated. ALSO READ: Battle for key positions in Senate, Parliament begin Early last year, Omar launched his gubernatorial campaign and only joined CORD campaigns during the Malindi by-election only once. In private discussions, he explained his disappointment with the coalition, often railing Kalonzo and proclaiming ideological affinity for Raila whom he now claims propagated the idea of him being a Jubilee mole. Publicly, the first cracks in Omar&rsquo;s relationship with CORD appeared in Mombasa on June 26 last year. Omar was not expected to be at the meeting, but he showed up anyway and when his turn to speak came, he launched his first attack on Raila and Kalonzo. Omar declared that ODM and Wiper were tribal Luo and Akamba parties and suggested that Coast politicians chart their own party to safeguard their interests. Wiper insiders claim Raila and Kalonzo tried to persuade Omar to step down for Joho and that his refusal may have created bad blood with the NASA leadership. Jabess Oduor, an aspirant for the city&rsquo;s Senate seat, says Omar&rsquo;s troubles in NASA began when the senator fiercely opposed plans to hold joint nominations by the coalition, believing it was a plot to weaken him. Fierce rivalry &ldquo;Kalonzo did not attend any of Omar&rsquo;s rallies, including the main one at Tononoka Grounds, but was present in most of Joho&rsquo;s functions, including the iftars,&rdquo; says Jabess, advancing the theory that Kalonzo was opposed to Omar&rsquo;s gubernatorial bid. Because of the fierce rivalry between Joho and Omar, Raila and Kalonzo avoided Mombasa and campaigned there just once on August 5. Two days earlier, Omar avoided Raila&rsquo;s and Kalonzo&rsquo;s rallies in Kwale and Kilifi. Joho and Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi were hailed by Kalonzo as &ldquo;our heroes in this region&rdquo; to Omar&rsquo;s chagrin. Wiper Secretary for Religious Affairs Sheikh Omar Twaha says Omar&rsquo;s woes in Wiper and NASA were of his own making. ALSO READ: Battle for key positions in Senate, Parliament begin Locally, Omar was also making enemies. &ldquo;Omar elbowed out senior members like former Nyali MP Hezron Awiti and Jomvu MP Badi Twalib from the party. During the nominations he had preferred candidates,&rdquo; argues Coast political commentator Afia Rama said.