Jubilee supporters took to the streets of Nairobi, Nakuru and Nyeri towns on Tuesday to condemn the Judiciary for &lsquo;stealing their victory&rsquo;. The protests were staged on the eve of the delivery of a detailed ruling by the Supreme Court on its nullification of President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s victory in the August 8 election. ALSO READ: Lobby asks Maraga to review Supreme Court&rsquo;s nullification of Uhuru&rsquo;s re-election Chief Justice David Maraga, his deputy Philomena Mwilu, Justices Smokin Wanjala and Isaac Lenaola ruled in favour of a petition by the National Super Alliance (NASA) challenging the results. Justices Njoki Ndung&rsquo;u and Jackton Ojwang dissented. Waving placards and chanting &ldquo;Maraga must go!&rdquo;, protesters in Nairobi converged outside the Supreme Court, where they accused the court of being biased. In Nakuru town, demonstrators took to the main streets chanting slogans in support of Uhuru and his deputy William Ruto. They accused Mr Maraga and his deputy Ms Mwilu of having met Opposition lawyers before nullifying the presidential election. They paralysed traffic along the Nakuru, Nairobi, Eldoret highway, causing a heavy traffic jam for the better part of the day. Drastically decreased Charles Nderitu, a driver who plies Nakuru Eldoret highway who joined the demonstrators, said business had highly been affected by the ruling. &ldquo;Since the ruling by the Supreme Court, the number of people travelling has drastically decreased, and unfortunately, a majority have closed their business,&rdquo; said Mr Nderitu. &ldquo;All we are demanding is to have Uhuru Kenyatta sworn in as president.&rdquo; ALSO READ: Lobby asks Maraga to review Supreme Court&rsquo;s nullification of Uhuru&rsquo;s re-election Nakuru Town East MP David Gikaria, who joined the demonstrators, directed police not to disperse the irate demonstrators. &ldquo;Sisi sio watu wa vita, lakini huezi dunga mtu kidole kwa macho, kwa mapua alafu anyamze. (We are peaceful people but you cannot provoke someone and expect them to remain silent,&rdquo; said the MP. Gikaria said the locals will close the main Nakuru-Nairobi highway until President Kenyatta is sworn in. In Nyeri town, hundreds of Jubilee supporters poured into the streets to protest media reports that two of the Supreme Court judges had contact with litigants. Waving placards, twigs, national flags and Jubilee Party merchandise, the demonstrators demanded that the matter be thoroughly investigated. &ldquo;The electoral commission should cancel the re-run polls and swear-in President Uhuru Kenyatta for his second term,&rdquo; Benson Macharia, a protestor, said. In Eldoret town, demonstrators waving anti-Judiciary placards, threatened to stage daily protests outside the local judicial offices. ALSO READ: Lobby asks Maraga to review Supreme Court&rsquo;s nullification of Uhuru&rsquo;s re-election &ldquo;This is a clear indication that there was explicit conflict of interest and the outcome of the presidential petition was unfair,&rdquo; said Benjamin Letting, a local political activist. Elsewhere, hundreds of Jubilee supporters took to the streets of Kiambu, Thika and Kikuyu towns to protest against the Supreme Court. The residents claimed the two petitions filed against two Supreme Court judges Philomena Mwilu and Isaac Lenaola was a testament that the ruling that nullified President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s win was biased. Waving placards While waving placards, twigs and chanting anti-Supreme Court slogans, the residents of Kiambu town called for the immediate swearing-in of the president. &ldquo;We do not need a repeat presidential election. It is becoming increasingly clear that the ruling made by the Supreme Court was not impartial,&rdquo; said Joseph Njuguna a Kiambu resident. Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu, his deputy James Nyoro and 92 MCAs joined the protesters and called for the overhaul of the judiciary. &ldquo;What we read in the newspaper has come to reinforce our believe that the judges were biased in their ruling of nullifying the presidential results. We therefore call for the swearing in of the president with immediate effect,&ldquo; said Kiambu Township MCA Antony Ikonya. Mr Waititu said they would not allow Raila to continue intimidating Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) officials. ALSO READ: Maraga: We are prepared to pay ultimate price to protect constitution He accused Raila of trying to use the Judiciary to get power through the back door a move he maintained would not succeed. &ldquo;We are totally fed up with their games and theatrics. The Opposition should know that we are not ready to let go the presidency. We will defend it with all our might,&rdquo; said Waititu. Report by Kamau Muthoni, Mercy Kahenda, Nderitu Gichure, Fred Kibor and Kamau Maichuhie