Six people believed to have been involved in last week&rsquo;s witchcraft drama have been charged afresh after their cases were consolidated. Yassin Lokorobe, Ronald Nganga, Wani Moses, Musa Ongom, Elizabeth Sarah, and Mary Achieng were charged with conspiracy to defraud and being in Kenya illegally. ALSO READ: Agency raises port cargo traffic by 12 per cent They were also charged with trafficking in human beings, being a nuisance to the public, and being in possession of a wildlife trophy. They reportedly committed the offence on September 6 at Kiembieni in Kisauni sub-county. They were accused of a plot to defraud by means of advertisement through displaying of posters and banners, pretending that as traditional doctors they could catch thieves, resolve court cases, secure jobs, and solve problems of impotency. They denied the charges before Shanzu Principal Magistrate Diana Mochache. But Moses and Ongom pleaded guilty to the charge of being a nuisance by appearing in public naked, thereby inconveniencing the public. However, the two opposed the playing of CCTV footage showing them naked while staging a witchcraft stunt. But the magistrate ordered that the footage be produced as it was part of evidence to be admitted to help the court make its decision. Sarah, Lokorobe, and Nganga faced another count of informing a police officer that motor vehicle registration number KBV 717Y, belonging to Sarah Wetaba, had been stolen, information they knew was false. ALSO READ: Hassan Omar: Raila and Kalonzo dumped me for Joho Lokorobe and Nganga faced yet another charge of being in possession of a wildlife trophy without a permit. Live cobra They were accused of claiming ownership of a live cobra they used in a witchcraft ritual against Ongom and Moses, without a permit. The magistrate ordered that the snake be released back into its natural habitat at Shimba Hills Forest. &ldquo;We wish to produce the snake recovered from the two suspects to be marked as evidence to enable us release it to a safer place. It is in distress and is unable to feed. Since it was rescued, it has only fed on one rat. It may die if we continue holding it,&rdquo; Musa Chuze, a marine officer, told court. The case will be mentioned on September 19. [email&#160;protected] ALSO READ: Joho to DP Ruto: I will be your worst nightmare when I become President