(Photo: Courtesy) Six county assemblies in South and Central Rift regions reconvene this week with the first agenda being the election of speakers. ALSO READ: Raila will defeat President Uhuru, says Dida In Nakuru County, the submission of nomination papers for the post of speaker has been closed, with seven of the 14 applicants submitting their documents. The deadline expired at 10am on Monday, when the office of the clerk announced that it would not receive any more applications. County Assembly Clerk Joseph Malinda is among those who have shown an interest in the position left vacant after Susan Kihika was elected to the Senate. Mr Malinda, former County Roads Executive Joel Kairo, former nominated MCA Margaret Kiiru, Nakuru Jubilee Party branch secretary Peter Cheruiyot and County Public Service Board chairman Waithanje Mutiti are among top contenders for the seat. Jubilee Party has been busy whipping its MCAs to ensure that the next speaker is someone who supports the ideals and agenda of the party. Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui said Jubilee would not allow &ldquo;just anyone&rdquo; to be elected the next speaker after the party won the majority seats in the assembly. The first session of the second assembly will convene on Wednesday. In Baringo County, more than 15 candidates have expressed interest in the speaker&rsquo;s position but only five - David Kerich, Fryda Lotuiya, Peter Ngeleiyo, Charles Kamuren and Joel Loime - had returned their applications by yesterday afternoon. ALSO READ: Judges have earned themselves permanent place of shame, DP Ruto says Mr Kerich is being fronted by Jubilee to take the position previously held by Kassait Kamket - who was elected as Tiaty MP in the August 8 polls. In Nyandarua, outgoing speaker Ndegwa Wahome is set to face off with Jubilee branch chairman Chege Gakuhi among others. Mr Wahome might lose his seat if the MCAs heed the call of the Jubilee secretariat in the county, which has thrown its weight behind Mr Gakuhi. The party has 23 out of 25 elected MCAs on its side. The race will become more complicated if Governor Francis Kimemia influences it in support of his close aide and popular businessman, Kariuki Mbataru. In Narok County, Jubilee Senate aspirant Nkoidila ole Lankas is among 10 politicians who lost in the General Election and are now seeking to head the county assembly. Lawyer Kaitikei Rotiken, who lost the Narok North parliamentary seat to Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party&rsquo;s Moitalel ole Kenta, is also in the race. ALSO READ: Raila will defeat President Uhuru, says Dida Political rivalry &nbsp;The contest will renew the political rivalry between Mr Rotiken and Nailantei Shonko, who competed in the Jubilee nominations in April. Others include Willy Loigero who came third in the race for the Narok West MP&rsquo;s seat, which was won by Chama Cha Mashinani&rsquo;s Gabriel Tong&rsquo;oyo. Former MCAs who lost in the recent elections are also in the race for speaker. They include the former Olokurto ward rep Kuntai Kool and outgoing Leader of Minority Dickson Muntet. The immediate former speaker, Nick Kamwaro, has also vowed to defend his seat, saying he had a brilliant track record in his first term.