A Presidential Escort Unit guard shot his girlfriend dead before attempting to commit suicide in Nairobi. The police constable allegedly killed his girlfriend Anne Wanjohi (pictured) inside a cyber caf&eacute; on Tom Mboya Street on Saturday night following an argument. ALSO READ: Eleven-year-old boy commits suicide at school dormitory in Meru Wanjohi was an attendant at the cyber cafe. The officer, who is fighting for his life in hospital, shot himself three times in the chest and left hand. Witnesses said the officer arrived at the caf&eacute; at about 7pm and stayed there for a while as Anne attended to customers. An argument started between the woman and the officer who drew his gun and shot her at close range, killing her on the spot as frightened customers scampered for safety. It was then that he turned his gun on himself. Nairobi police boss Japheth Koome said the officer was injured on his left biceps and chest. &ldquo;Miraculously he survived after shooting himself three times. He is in a stable condition in hospital,&rdquo; said Mr Koome. Koome said they are yet to know the motive of the shooting and are waiting for the officer to recover to question him. ALSO READ: Migori man accused of defiling seven-year-old A Jericho pistol and 10 bullets were recovered. Cases of police shooting their colleagues and friends dead before killing themselves are on the rise. Koome said given the nature of training, officers are expected to act as per the law, even if they are under pressure. Police officers&rsquo; relationships with their families, their colleagues and seniors among other issues have been identified as some of the causes of such incidents. Inspector General Joseph Boinnet had last year received a report on the causes of shootings by police officers targeting their colleagues. The probe was done by a team of officers led by Aggrey Adoli with a view to establishing the causes and also remedial actions. ALSO READ: Pupil hangs himself for coming second in exam