At least 100 people were left homeless on Sunday after 28 houses were set ablaze by rioting boda boda operators in Kaloleni, Kisumu. The motorcyclists were on a revenge mission following an attack on three of their colleagues, whose motorcycles were burnt in the slum on Saturday night. ALSO READ: Champions Kenya Ports Authority ready to defend title The motorcycles were burnt by some residents of the slum after two motorcycle operators attacked a passenger who declined to pay them. The boda boda rider is said to have ferried the passenger from Kisumu Main Bus Stage to the slum at night and was to be paid Sh100. &quot;This place is never secure for boda boda operators at night, and that is why the operators are escorted by colleagues when taking passengers to the area, and the passengers foot the extra bill,&rdquo; said an operator. The passenger, however, declined to pay for the escort, resulting in a fight which other residents of Kaloleni joined. The mob beat up the two riders and torched their motorcycles. A third motorcyclist who rushed in to help his colleagues also had his motorcycle torched. He, however, escaped without injuries. Sunday morning, the boda boda operators congregated, armed themselves with crude weapons and headed to Kaloleni where they broke into houses, attacked their occupants before setting the houses ablaze. The assailants, who engaged police in running battles, left a trail of destruction during their five-hour rampage. They also kept journalists at bay, threatening to attack them for exposing their faces. &quot;This is our fire. We started it and we will put it out,&quot; shouted the machete-wielding youths. ALSO READ: Gang kills watchman, steals digital learning equipment in Kisumu Eveline Magak was nursing her three-year old at a nearby hospital when she was informed about the attack. &ldquo;I left my baby in the hospital to come and check the safety of my two other children who were in the house and got straight into the skirmishes. The attackers ordered me to salvage what I could before they torched the house, and just as I tried to pick some of my things, the flame engulfed the house,&rdquo; she said. &nbsp; At the time of going to Press, Magak was yet to establish the whereabouts of her two children. &ldquo;If some people attacked the boda boda operators, how were we helpless women involved? This is pure crime and we ask the Government to save us. I do not know where to start from,&rdquo; said Magak. Athuman Juma, a Form Three student at Highway Secondary School, escaped unhurt, but his friend was hit on the head with a metal bar. &ldquo;Their main targets were young men but when most of them escaped, they started breaking into houses and beating people. We fear they may do more harm given that they have started threatening women with rape,&rdquo; said Juston Asuga. ALSO READ: Gang kills watchman, steals digital learning equipment in Kisumu County Police Commander Titus Yoma later said they had restored calm in the slum.