Drivers operating under taxi-hailing apps Uber, Little, Taxify and Mondo ride started their strike on MondayThey are protesting against their current working conditions which they claim&nbsp;are giving them meager earningsA section of taxi-hailing app drivers continued with their strike Wednesday to protest against payment rates offered by their service providers. The drivers drawn from Uber, Little, Taxify and Mondo began the indefinite strike on Monday, in protest against their current terms of service. ALSO READ: Online taxi drivers go on strike The online taxi drivers under the Digital Taxi association of Kenya said the go slow will go on until their demands are met. Among the demands by Uber drivers is that the commission that goes to the taxi hailing company be reduced from 25 percent to 15 percent. They also want to be consulted before the hailing companies give offers and discounts. Drivers who are on go slow parked their cars at Uhuru Park demanding better terms of service. Photo: Courtesy They first gathered outside City Hall in Nairobi, hooting and making their plight known to passers-by. This came as Uber said that any acts of violence and intimidation among drivers and partners will not be tolerated even as they exercise their rights. &nbsp; Members of the public were asked to report any complaints by reporting number plates of the cars involved. &quot;While we respect every partner&rsquo;s right to express their opinions, acts of violence or intimidation that threaten the trust and safety of the Uber community are condemned. Such acts will not be tolerated and Uber will permanently deactivate the account of any driver-partner who is found be involved,&quot; read a statement sent to newsrooms. A car with its number plate covered during the protest by taxi-hailing app drivers strike. Photo: Courtesy The drivers drove through various city streets as they honked their cars. They had their cars number plates covered to avoid being reported. They drove through Ring Road, Uhuru Highway, Ngong Road, Waiyaki Way and some CBD streets. ALSO READ: Taxi-hailing app Little looks to raise funds in 2018 This affected traffic flow on the affected streets for a while as police moved in to control the flow. Some motorists complained of being harassed by the striking drivers. Police have called on the drivers to be cautious whenever they are on strike and not to affect others&#39; rights.