A vehicle riddled with bullet holes after it was shot at by Al Shabaab militants in Shimo la Simba, Tana River County. [Courtesy, Standard] More than 800 pupils in Basuba, Lamu East, have been turned away from school after teachers failed to report for third term over security fears. ALSO READ: Beware: Petty thieves targeting slow traffic The Standard established Thursday that about 20 teachers have refused to go back to work, while some have since requested for transfers because of fear of attacks by Al Shabaab militants operating from Boni forest. Lamu County Teacher Services Commission Director Charles Nyamau said newly posted teachers had all declined to report and the commission was keen on transferring the pupils to other schools. &ldquo;We are in consultation with the security team on how security is going to be beefed up in schools that are in Boni forest for learning to continue,&rdquo; said Mr Nyamau. According to Basuba senior chief Yusuf Nur, 200 from Mararani, 90 from Milimani, 105 from Kiangwe, 138 from Basuba and 270 of Mangai have been affected. Asked for transfers &ldquo;We have been left out in all promotions since most of us are not educated, our children who are supposed to be our pillar are not able to get quality education due to numerous attacks,&rdquo; said Mr Nur. The Standard also established that over 100 pupils have asked for transfers from the affected schools to move to Arid Zone Primary School in Mokowe, 20km from Boni. Others have been admitted to Africa Muslim Agency (AMA) situated on Lamu Island. ALSO READ: Gangsters pursue customer 200m away before killing him Lamu County Commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo admitted that many pupils have not reported to school because of security challenges, but added that the Government was also discouraging transfers. He said more police officers would be deployed to the affected schools to protect pupils and the teachers. Kenya Defence Forces soldiers and Administration Police and General Service Unit officers are guarding the 20 schools in both Lamu East and West. Meanwhile, two motorists were Thursday morning shot dead by Al Shabaab militants in Lango la Simba, Tana River. The terrorists sprayed two vehicles with bullets on Garsen-Lamu road and then escaped. The vehicles Tana Delta OCPD Riziki Ali said the vehicles were a lorry and saloon which were headed to Minjila from Witu. ALSO READ: Military Games: Soldiers asked not to drop guard Three other locals said they had been attacked on Wednesday night by the same gang. The men had injuries on their bodies. This gave an indication the terrorists are still operating in the area despite intensified police operations. On Tuesday, the militants attacked and destroyed a communication mast before burning down a meeting hall in Dabacity, Kutulo, Mandera County. -Additional reporting by Cyrus Ombati [email&#160;protected]