Governor Kivutha Kibwana&rsquo;s executive member for water, Douglas Mbilu, braved a serious challenge to bag the county assembly speaker&rsquo;s position. Mbilu garnered 35 votes out of 47 beating other six competitors among them a Sub County administrator in Kibwana&rsquo;s government and Wiper&rsquo;s Mbooni parliamentary loser Mary Muting&rsquo;a. The Makueni new speaker Douglas Mbilu addresses journalists shortly after taking oath of office. He garnered 35 votes out of the total vote cast of 47. Photo: Stephen Nzioka /Standard He replaces Stephen Ngelu who was elected under URP ticket. Addressing journalists outside the County Assembly chambers, Mbilu promised to uphold the rule of law and exercise public participation to enhance good governance and inclusivity. &ldquo;We will have inclusivity in public participation in matters of the assembly and work together with the executive though the independence of the two shall be observed&rdquo;, he noted The speaker assured of timely passing of budgets once the assembly confines its first sitting on September 19. The new Makueni Speaker Douglas Mbilu chats with the County Clerk shortly after the swearing in. Photo: Stephen Nzioka/Standard The Makueni County Governor Kivutha Kibwana congratulated the new speaker and called upon the MCA&rsquo;s to circumvent what happened in the last assembly and work in unity to better the lives of the residents. Kibwana said his administration will seek to nurture consensus building with the county assembly through the newly elected speaker. Kibwana, however, vowed to respect the separation of powers between the two arms of county assembly, warding off fears that the new speaker would be a mouth piece for the executive. &ldquo;We had hard times in the past assembly but now we won&rsquo;t lose time, we have learned a lesson and we should let it go&rdquo;, said Kibwana. It&rsquo;s in history that Makueni County Assembly had passed a motion to impeach Kivutha Kibwana though he sailed their wrath. However, the forerunners of the motion including the majority leader were sent parking by the voters in the concluded elections with only one MCA, Francis Mutungi (Kathonzweni) having survived from the axe. (Photo: Courtesy) Others who had turned up for the occasion includes: Deputy Governor Andelina Mwau, County MP Rose Museo, MPs Joshua Kimilu (Kaiti) and Thadeus Nzambia (Kilome). They expressed their confidence with the new speaker. &ldquo;Today is a new dawn to end exchange of fires in our great county&rdquo;, said Rose Museo.