NASA leaders led by former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero (centre), former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama (left) and Kibra MP Ken Okoth at Panafric Hotel. [Elvis Ogina, Standard] National Super Alliance leaders have now agreed on a strategy to campaign for Opposition leader Raila Odinga. ALSO READ: Opinion: Supreme Court set a historic precedent but erred in principle The Nairobi-based leaders met Thursday and deliberated on how to secure votes during the October 17 repeat presidential election. Those who attended the meeting held at Panafric Hotel included former Governor Evans Kidero, former Machakos Senator Johnston Muthama, Woman Representative Esther Passaris and MPs Tim Wanyonyi (Westlands), Simba Arati (Dagoreti North) George Aladwa (Makadara), TJ Kajwang (Ruaraka) and Anthony Oluoch (Mathare). &ldquo;This time we are going to ensure that party leader Raila Odinga garners more than 1.2 million votes in Nairobi during the election,&rdquo; said Nairobi NASA Co-ordinator Muthama. &nbsp;Work together He said all elected MPs would work together with Members of&nbsp; County Assembly and ward administrators in their constituencies to mobilise support for the former prime minister. The alliance will hold door-to door campaigns across the country, he said. as they traverse the county. Muthama explained that the team had managed to pick out irregularities in transmission and tallying of Raila&rsquo;s votes in Nairobi and were keen on avoiding the same in the forthcoming elections. He said the Supreme Court ruling made against the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission constituted grounds for re-election. But he blamed the court for what he termed as &lsquo;non-involvement&rsquo; in the setting of the date for the fresh presidential poll. ALSO READ: Teachers shun calls for exams schedule change &nbsp;Protect votes &ldquo;The IEBC went ahead and set the date for the elections without consulting stakeholders. This time round, however, we must protect our presidential candidate&rsquo;s votes and we will leave no chance for any rigging,&rdquo; said Muthama. Reacting to claims that NASA had no agents during the August 8 elections, Muthama decried the poor treatment of party agents in Jubilee strongholds. He vowed that their agents would not be harassed again. Kidero on his part declined to reveal whether he will challenge Governor Mike Sonko&rsquo;s election only saying that &lsquo;justice will be served&rsquo;. He also called for peace citing justice as the only way to guarantee the latter. &ldquo;Come the elections I am sure Nairobi will choose the leader they want and I urge them to maintain peace because I know justice will prevail,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: Moses Kuria launches another vile attack on Raila Odinga [email&#160;protected]