Busia governor race loser Paul Otuoma is the latest politician to switch sides as political realignments take centre stage ahead of the repeat presidential election. Dr Otuoma yesterday ditched National Super Alliance (NASA) presidential candidate Raila Odinga in favour of President Uhuru Kenyatta, saying Mr Raila sidelined Busia. ALSO READ: Storm at IEBC over Chebukati appointments &quot;My team is feeling that Raila Odinga has made them suffer a lot by sidelining them even after supporting him in every election,&quot; he said. He continued: &quot;Politics is about fighting for the interest of your people and my supporters have said there is no need of backing Raila.&quot; The former ODM national vice chairman and close confidant of Raila, chose to contest for the Busia top seat as an independent candidate after the disputed party primaries in April won by Governor Sospeter Ojaamong - who went on to retain his seat. It appears that the repeat poll has provided poll losers with the perfect opportunity to realign themselves with hopes of political survival should their candidate win the October 17 election. On Tuesday, United Democratic Party (UDP) presidential candidate in the August 8 polls, Cyrus Jirongo, led other poll losers - some of whom were in NASA - in declaring their support for Uhuru at State House, Nairobi. Job seekers Former Vihiga Governor Moses Akaranga, who unsuccessfully defended his seat on a Progressive Party of Kenya and former Kanduyi MP Alfred Khang&#39;ati, who unsuccessfully contested the Bungoma governorship on an ODM ticket also threw their weight behind Uhuru, Jubilee&#39;s candidate. Otuoma and former Budalang&#39;i MP Ababu Namwamba will now lead Uhuru&#39;s campaign team in Busia. They will be backed by former MPs Arthur Odera and Mary Emaase. ALSO READ: Why the Supreme Court ruling was so significant for Kenya But Western region MPs allied to the Opposition have dismissed a delegation of leaders hosted by President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House, Nairobi as a group of losers desperate for State jobs. MPs Chris Wamalwa (Kiminini), Eseli Simiyu (Tongaren), Geoffrey Osotsi (nominated), Chris Omulele (Lwanda) and Caleb Amisi (Saboti) told the electorate to shun the defectors whom they described as &quot;selfish job seekers&quot; with no interest for the people. The legislators said the decision by the poll losers to back Uhuru was inconsequential. [email&#160;protected]