I had an impromptu conversation with a first-time Member of Parliament recently. The MP assured me that he was a self-made man who didn&rsquo;t need the money Sarah Serem was trying to take away from him. However, he understood why his colleagues were concerned about the proposed pay cuts. Politics is a very expensive game, he said, and playing the field is not for the shallow of pocket. He insisted that good leadership hinged on a politician&rsquo;s ability to provide financially for his constituents - poor men do not good leaders make. ALSO READ: MPs should use institutional authority for public good For anyone who wants to secure a seat in Parliament, there is one cardinal rule &ndash; the end justifies the means. You do what you have to do to get there and once you&rsquo;re in, you can do what you want. In what is perhaps the greatest irony of our time, Members of Parliament have legal authority to make laws, and for the most part, to wield those laws in any way they choose. This is why they can take pot-shots at anyone who questions their exorbitant pay package. Why they can legislate in their own interests to gag the press, restrict freedoms of expression and assembly, and limit civilian rights to a fair trial. Worst of all, this is why they can threaten the independence of the Judiciary. Not immune But our parliamentary representatives do not operate in a vacuum. They are not immune to the pressures of party politics, neither do they remain uninfluenced by party leaders who often lead the charge against due process and independent institutions. This has seldom been more apparent than it was in the immediate aftermath of the Supreme Court decision that invalidated the 2017 presidential election results. Leaders aligned with Jubilee Party quickly took their cue from President Uhuru Kenyatta, who recklessly disparaged the Chief Justice and the cohort of judges that decided the petition. The President declared there was a problem with the Judiciary and said he was going to fix it. If there was a problem, it was that the court defied the odds by ruling against a sitting president, who was upstaged by the legal system and was having none of it. Right on cue, his subjects got in formation. In short order, Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua spoke to the press saying that Jubilee MPs would push for a referendum to amend the Constitution and trim the powers of the Judiciary. ALSO READ: Gladys Wanga: Salary cut for MPs unacceptable A Facebook post attributed to Moses Kuria alleged the Gatundu MP&rsquo;s first order of business in Parliament would be to make changes to the number of Supreme Court judges who can hear a presidential petition. Leader of Majority Aden Duale and Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen chimed in with a cacophony of unrestrained claims, threats and allegations. Mr Duale said there was a judicial master plan to install Opposition leader Raila Odinga as president and Mr Murkomen promised that Jubilee would get to the bottom of the Supreme Court decision after the fresh election. Recent events Even a passing glance at recent events surrounding the Supreme Court&rsquo;s decision will reveal that for a great number of politicians, institutions have little intrinsic value. Had the decision not gone the way of the National Super Alliance (NASA), we would have been treated to a similar case of sour grapes. After all, post-2013, the NASA flag bearer&rsquo;s faith in the Supreme Court was visibly shaken and he called on the &ldquo;mahakama bandia&rdquo; (fake court) to &ldquo;redeem itself&rdquo; over what he felt was the wrong decision. If the Supreme Court&rsquo;s decision of 2013 was wrong, it was because it re-installed the de facto heir to Kenya&rsquo;s throne. Like Uhuru today, Raila did not take it kindly then. However, Raila is not an establishment candidate. He may be part of this country&rsquo;s economic elite but he remains a political outsider insofar as legacy politics is concerned. Unlike Uhuru, he is not a self-styled sovereign who was weaned on entitlement. ALSO READ: Businessman Jimmy Wanjigi confronts suspicious people trailing him While both men are heavily invested in the fresh election outcome, for the man whose political future hinges on maintaining the status quo, the stakes are that much higher. For a few days after the court&rsquo;s decision, our President fought higher with higher. Let&rsquo;s hope that a sober conclusion will be reached for all. Ms Masiga is Peace and Security Editor at The Conversation Africa