NASA leader Raila Odinga has sent his condolences to the families of victims of the Moi Girls High School fire tragedy in Kibra Constituency, Nairobi. Raila promised assistance that would help allay the pain and put the institution back on track in the days ahead. ALSO READ: Kenya&rsquo;s Supreme Court makes history in Africa He called on relevant authorities to speed up investigations to establish cause of the fire. Accompanied by area Member of Parliament, Ken Okoth, the former Prime Minister also cautioned Kenyans to stop speculation and leave government agencies to deal with the matter and conduct proper investigations. The cause of the fire is, however, still unknown. According to one of the administrators at the institution, the affected dormitory had been occupied by Form One students. Education Cabinet Secretary Dr Fred Matiang&rsquo;i indicated that the school will be closed to allow students recover from shock. &quot;The school will remain closed for the next two weeks to allow the students to recover from the shock of the incident,&quot; he stated. Dr Matiang&#39;i also sent condolences on behalf of President Uhuru Kenyatta adding that relevant authorities will establish the cause fire. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko reiterated he will conduct an inspection of other private and public schools to ensure dormitories have enough fire exits. ALSO READ: Raila declares fresh war on IEBC &nbsp; Raila&#39;s statement: &quot;Mama Ida and I are deeply saddened by the fire tragedy that occurred earlier today at Moi Girls School, Nairobi and that claimed lives of seven young girls and left scores injured. We grieve the brutal death of such nice and innocent children who had just reported back to school for the final term of the year. We pray for the families, who must be struggling for answers at this moment. We also stand with the fraternity of the school, including students, workers, teachers and parents for what they are going through at this moment. It is our hope that the government will quickly conduct investigations and share findings with the public on the cause of the fire as that will be critical to helping the parents and students cope with the loss. We pray that God grants the students the fortitude and courage to cope with the loss of friends in the tragedy.&quot; ALSO READ: Raila declares fresh war on IEBC