Gatundu South Member of Parliament (MP) Moses Kuria has answered to a public appeal from the National Super Alliance (NASA) leader, Raila Odinga, for funds to finance the repeat presidential election slated for October 17. In a Facebook post, the controversial legislator alleged he contributed Sh5 towards the NASA coalition&rsquo;s course, a move that angered staunch Raila supporters. ALSO READ: It's time to take action against Moses Kuria &nbsp; &nbsp; Addressing the media on Friday morning, the former Prime Minister said that &lsquo;anybody who wants to go to Canaan should buy a ticket&rsquo; &ndash; referring to supporters having to contribute financially towards the campaign. Kuria, triggered public outrage on Thursday with an abusive attack on the Opposition leader and the NASA coalition. In a live stream on his Facebook page, the MP hurled insults at Raila and his family, using obscene words that The Standard cannot publish. The offensive utterances, disguised as criticism of the Opposition leader whom he said had become a headache to the Jubilee administration, were uttered at a rally in Kiambu in the company of Governor Ferdinand Waititu and Limuru MP Peter Mwathi. The legislator dismissed the four Supreme Court judges who nullified the presidential election, questioning how four people could render the over eight million votes cast in favour of Uhuru useless in just five minutes. ALSO READ: It's time to take action against Moses Kuria Kuria attacked Raila&#39;s public criticism of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC), saying it would not matter whether the Opposition chief put his family to oversee the elections since Jubilee would still win. Speaking in Kikuyu, he said: &quot;We gave birth to a baby. That baby did not die in the womb or in the maternity. It had started breastfeeding but he came and killed the baby. Would you forgive such a person?&quot; asked Kuria. Kuria declared he was ready to face the consequences over his attack on Raila. &quot;For how long will Raila pester us? Let me get jailed. Where will they take me? Who were the prisons built for? Wasn&#39;t Mandela jailed and released?&quot; he asked.