Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu moved to court seeking the removal of Chief Justice David MaragaMaraga led the Supreme Court judges in delivering ruling on petition challenging Uhuru Kenyatta&#39;s presidential winJubilee&nbsp;has distanced itself from the petition, saying it did not represent the voice of the partyA section of MPs from Kisii and Nyamira counties have asked Nyeri Town lawmaker Ngunjiri Wambugu to immediately withdraw a petition seeking to kick Chief Justice David Maraga out of office over the Supreme Court judgment. Seven lawmakers from the region led by Jimmy Angwenyi (Kitutu Chache North) faulted their colleague for going to court to seek the sacking of Justice Maraga, insisting that just like other leaders he should respect the decision of the Supreme Court. ALSO READ: Jubilee legislators plan to amend law to rein in Judiciary &ldquo;Even President Uhuru Kenyatta did not agree with the decision that nullified his win on August 8, but he accepted and moved on. The petition against Maraga is in bad taste and should be withdrawn by the end of today,&rdquo; demanded Agwenyi. &ldquo;As leaders from Kisii community where Maraga hails from, we see this as a malicious attempt to dislodge him from office. We will not allow people to threaten the Chief Justice with an ouster because of a decision made by the court,&rdquo; added the MP. Shadrack Mose (Kitutu Masaba) warned that the move by Ngunjiri will cause unnecessary anxiety, considering that the country is preparing for the repeat presidential election. &ldquo;Anyone seeking to send the CJ parking should have waited until the Supreme Court gives its full judgment before they start pointing accusing fingers and apportioning blame at anybody in the court. Such diversions like the petition will cause unnecessary disenchantment,&rdquo; explained Mose. Other MPs present Jerusha Momanyi ( Nyamira County ) Zadock Ogutu (Bomachoge Borabu) Ezekiel Machogu (Nyaribari Masaba) similarly denounced the petition, which they noted was motivated by malice. Speaking separately to The Standard, Kisii Woman Representative Janet Ong&#39;era described the petition to remove Maraga as a clear vendetta on the CJ saying it has now exposed the plan by Jubilee to victimise members of the Supreme Court. &quot;This is clear vendetta on the CJ as members of the community we shall not allow it. Four judges ruled in favour of the petition by Raila, why should anybody go only for the head of Maraga for a collective decision? posed Ong&#39;era who was elected on ODM ticket. ALSO READ: I was pained by Supreme Court decision, says Uhuru