Mr. Orlando Lyomu has been appointed acting Group CEO following the resignation of Sam Shollei who resigned effective 1st September 2017 to pursue other interests.Sam Shollei joined Standard Group Plc in September 2012 and has guided the Group through challenging times to its current strong positionThe Standard Group Board has announced a change in its top management following the resignation of Sam Shollei as Group Chief Executive Officer (GCEO). &nbsp; Through a notice, the Board has notified shareholders and the general public that it has appointed Mr. Orlando Lyomu as the acting GCEO to replace Shollei who resigned effective&nbsp;September 1, 2017. &ldquo;I am writing to you on behalf of the Board to notify you of the resignation of the Group Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Sam Shollei, who has resigned to pursue other interests. This resignation is effective immediately and the Board has appointed Mr. Orlando Lyomu as acting GCEO pending the appointment of a substantive GCEO,&rdquo; said Robin Sewell, Chairman of the Standard Group Board in a communication to Standard Group staff. Mr. Orlando Lyomu Until this appointment, Mr. Orlando Lyomu was serving as Group Finance Director &amp; Chief Operating Officer, a position he held since 2012. &ldquo;We wish Mr. Shollei every success in his future endeavors and express our full confidence that Mr. Lyomu will provide the necessary guidance and stability for the Group pending the appointment of a substantive GCEO,&rdquo; said Sewell. Shollei joined Standard Group Plc in September 2012 and has guided the Group through challenging times to its current strong position. The Standard Group Limited is a multi-media organization with investments in media platforms spanning newspaper print operations, television, radio broadcasting, digital and online services, as well as outdoor advertising. The Standard Group is recognised as a leading multi-media house in Kenya with a key influence in matters of national and international interest.&nbsp;