Opposition leader Raila Odinga has led his colleagues in launching what they described as a campaign to force out electoral officials they accused of bungling the August 8 elections. The National Super Alliance said it will embark on nationwide rallies to explain there will be no repeat presidential elections on October 17 as announced by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) if their demands for the removal of the poll officials are not met. ALSO READ: Our demands must be met, insists Raila &ldquo;IEBC as currently constituted together with the institutions that conducted the August elections cannot conduct a free and fair election in October. It is not in their interest to do so,&rdquo; Raila told a press conference in a Nairobi hotel on Sunday. Present were Nasa principals Kalonzo Musyoka and Musalia Mudavadi as well as several opposition MPs. Nasa principals have accused IEBC of working together with President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s Jubilee party to compromise elections. &ldquo;That is where reform at IEBC will begin. Kenyans are coming for you. Salvage what you can and run. There will be no election with you in office,&rdquo; Raila declared. &ldquo;First, IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati raised more questions with the CEO of the Commission Ezra Chiloba. Then the officials proceeded to a retreat and declared unity and readiness to conduct another election,&rdquo; Raila said. Raila pointed out that all individuals and institutions that perpetrated the illegalities and irregularities remain in place, claiming readiness to conduct another election. The opposition leaders want the 12 questions Chebukati raised with Chiloba answered. &ldquo;Chebukati wants to know why his account was created and used to undertake 9,934 transactions in the IEBC server without his knowledge and consent. He also wants to know why 595 polling stations failed to send any presidential results, while 682 polling stations had identical numbers of rejected votes. We heard from Deputy President that Chiloba had answered,&rdquo; Raila said. ALSO READ: We won't participate in election until IEBC meets our demands, says Raila He added, &ldquo;Neither NASA nor the Kenyan public knows that Chiloba had responded. Only Jubilee knows.&rdquo; Kalonzo said that it is disturbing but easy to understand that the information is coming from deputy president William Ruto. &ldquo;IEBC and Jubilee are partners in crime. The two need each other. If Jubilee is in power, it will protect the co-conspirators and fraudsters in IEBC. Those IEBC officials have every reason to protect Jubilee as their only source of protection,&rdquo; Kalonzo said. He continued: &ldquo;The murder of Chris Msando who was IEBC IT Director is a cold-hearted crime that goes very high up. IEBC and Jubilee are partners in this murder.&rdquo; The leaders wondered why Kenyans should trust individuals and institutions with another election. Kalonzo added, &ldquo;Are we counting on the very institutions and individuals who participated in a coup against the people of Kenya and tried to install a defeated candidate as winner to ensure an accountable counting, tallying, transmission and transparency of results?&nbsp; Our answer is No&rdquo;. ALSO READ: Let's shift focus from IEBC team, streamline all our electoral systems