Four police officers are being investigated for allegedly conniving with members of the Gaza gang to kill their colleagues assigned to track and arrest the criminals in Kayole Estate, Nairobi. Also being investigated is an MP, an MCA and a pastor reported to be working with the four officers to frustrate efforts to rid the city&rsquo;s Eastlands estate of the dreaded gang that is implicated in the killing of two police officers in March. The investigations were prompted after a failed police operation to arrest the gang&rsquo;s leaders, only identified as Kagwanja and his deputy Mwaniki, alias Mwanee. Security agents suspect that the four police officers leaked the operations details to the gang members. According to sources privy to the investigations, the four officers &ndash; a chief inspector, a senior sergeant, a sergeant and a police constable &ndash; were lured by a pastor of a local church who is an accomplice of the gang to give information on the police crackdown in exchange for money. The four police officers were reportedly allocated land in Kayole&rsquo;s Portmore area in Matopeni, where the gang thrives, to allow the gang to operate without interference. The MCA is said to have given the gang leaders Sh100,000 to relocate after receiving information through the pastor on the impending police raid. ALSO READ: There are just too many guns around politicians' waists The politician is also reported to have bought guns for the gang shortly before the killing of a police officer. The MCA, who two weeks ago allegedly paid the chief inspector of police Sh500,000, is said to use the gang to intimidate his political rivals. The Chief inspector of police has reportedly been frequently meeting the MCA and the pastor during which meetings information on police operations have been leaked. Members of the Gaza gang and other criminal organisations have used their social media platforms to rally their accomplices to avenge the deaths of their colleagues killed by police. They pose with guns and police uniforms to pay tribute to their accomplices killed by police during operations. Security agents have launched a manhunt for some of the gang members whose pictures have already been obtained. Nairobi County Commander Japheth Koome has warned that police will not sit back and watch as the gang kills police officers and members of the public. &ldquo;We will hunt them down and ensure they face the full force of the law,&rdquo; said Koome. ALSO READ: Nyeri prison wardens in gun drama over two 13-year-old 'maids'