Mombasa governor Hassan Joho has maintained that Jubilee had a hand in the recent gun attack during an ODM rally he attended in Migori and demanded the arrest of culprits. He noted that guns were pointed at his seat and his car was riddled with two bullets indicating that he was the main target of the attack. &quot;The aim is to scare us and confine us to our houses. But I am telling Jubilee that we will not be intimidated and we will venture out and campaign for our party,&quot; Joho said. Governor Joho who is also the ODM deputy party leader said although the Jubilee government was quickly dismissing the Migori attack as an ODM affair, it happened abruptly and targeted him showing all indications that Jubilee had a hand in it. He accused Jubilee government of abuse of power to frustrate Opposition figures ahead of the August elections. Joho was addressing an estimated 600 members of the ODM disability league at KPA Mbaraki sports club in Mombasa County on Wednesday. ALSO READ: Kisumu elders clash in scramble to endorse ODM party aspirants The group was led by nominated MCA Hudson Karume while the governor was accompanied by Hazel Koitaba CEC who is also acting in the Youth and Sports docket. &quot;I am calling on Kenyans of goodwill to vote out Jubilee government come August 8. I believe life will be better after Jubilee is voted out,&quot; Joho said. Joho said he was targeted for harassment for defending his people and challenging the Jubilee government but said he will continue &quot;standing for the truth.&quot; &quot;I have never abused President Uhuru Kenyatta. I have only told him the truth about the lives of Mombasa residents and I will stand by it. I have no apologies to make,&quot; he said, adding that he was determined to champion for ODM to victory and also join the presidential race in 2022. Joho criticized President Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto for borrowing huge loans and initiating projects that allegedly benefits them as leaders at the expense of poor Kenyans. He claimed that transporting a container by Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) train will be more expensive than the current use of trucks and that the cost will be passed over to the consumers by businesspeople. According to governor Joho, it will cost Sh160,000 to transport a 400 foot container to Nairobi by SGR train and Sh103,000 to ferry a 20 foot container compared to Sh80,000 currently by a truck. ALSO READ: Governor Joho in another run-in with police &quot;The SGR tariffs to transport a container from Mombasa port to Nairobi are took high compared to trucks which also employ three people each. It will cost double to transport a container from Mombasa to Nairobi and consumer will bear the cost,&quot; Joho warned.