Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) Chairman Wafula Chebukati said political parties had been asked to submit the list of their aspirants by April 5. Under Section 31 (2B) of the Elections Act, 2011 on political party nominations, parties are required to submit to the IEBC names of those contesting in their primaries. They are also required to submit the dates of these nominations at least 21 days before the primaries. &ldquo;The commission will gazette names received within seven days from Saturday. Thereafter political parties will have 14 days to prepare and conduct party primaries not later than April 26,&rdquo; said Mr Chebukati. He warned that no political party would be allowed to hold primaries before the commission gazettes the list of aspirants. Chebukati said all parties should hold primaries between April 13 and 26 and all parties will be expected to have given the final list of their candidates by May 8, exactly 90 days before the General Election. The IEBC boss said all parties that intend to participate in the August 8 General Election are required by Sections 28 and 31 of the Elections Act to submit their party membership lists. ALSO READ: Parallel vote tallying a must, insists Raila &ldquo;This follows the fact that the Interim Court Order that had suspended implementation of Section 28 of the Elections Act, 2011 was vacated,&rdquo; he said. Chebukati said 57 registered political parties had delivered members&#39; list to enable the commission publicise the lists as required by law. He, however, said the Commission had noted the increasing reports of violence in various parts of the country. &ldquo;The Electoral Code of Conduct came into force two weeks ago. We wish to remind stakeholders of the sanctions for infringing the provisions of the code of conduct including warnings, fines and cancelling the right of political parties or candidates to participate in elections,&rdquo; he said. Chebukati said the Commission was ready to enforce this code through the Code of Conduct Enforcement Committee.