The Jubilee Party recovered from the chaotic start to its nominations to attain a semblance of order although a few incidents have been reported. ODM and other parties on the other hand continue to experience challenges resulting in violence in some areas. The nominations, however, hold lessons for us. First, what came through was the lack of preparedness across the board. Apparently, parties did not liaise with the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to get the number of registered voters to aid in their planning. Cases of logistical challenges resulting in the late arrival of electoral material; some places getting fewer ballot papers than registered voters, late opening of polling stations and open bias point to lack of attention to detail that has caused all the commotion so far witnessed. It is important that IEBC draws lessons from this as it prepares for the main election in August. In the past, experiencing similar cases within the electoral body gave rise to suspicion, complaints and petitions. ALSO READ: Blatant vote stealing and rigging in party nominations The biggest lesson from the primaries is reserved for leaders, both aspiring and incumbents. There comes a time when the people say enough is enough and that it is no longer business as usual. Holding leaders to account is more pronounced under the new political dispensation. Big names in politics, hitherto considered invincible, have fallen by the wayside. Nepotism and cronyisms have not worked for some of the leaders who counted on them to win party tickets. There is a heightened level of awareness amongst the electorate that leads them to actively demand accountability from their elected leaders. Citizens understand their rights better and know what to expect from their leaders. It is a demonstration of displeasure with leaders who have failed to deliver when the electorate denies some the long-serving leaders party tickets to participate in the August 8, 2017 elections. Going forward, leaders must deliver on development and pledges made during campaigns. ALSO READ: Oburu, Midiwo fall, Orengo wins and Nyong&rsquo;o still fighting on