Confusion has marred Wiper nominations scheduled for Tuesday in Machakos County after claims emerged that some aspirants&#39; names had been maliciously struck out of the party&#39;s list for the exercise. Nominations for gubernatorial aspirants had been postponed after the party&#39;s national elections board summoned Peter Mathuki, Bernard Kiala and Wavinya Ndeti who had earlier been listed as contestants for the party ticket. Mathuki, who is an outgoing East African Legislative Assembly MP has since teamed up with Wavinya, the former CCU party leader as running mate and governor aspirant respectively in a deal brokered last month in the presence of party leader, Kalonzo Musyoka. &ldquo;We are aware that people have been mobilized to ensure that they interfere with the outcome of the gubernatorial nominations in Machakos, and it is well known that there is a direct interest by one of the Jubilee affiliates &ndash; that is, Maendeleo Chap Chap through Governor Mutua -- to ensure that they tamper or interfere with the outcome in term of the nominations of the Wiper Democratic Movement-Kenya,&rdquo; read part of the Wiper press statement. Kalonzo, who received Wavinya at Wiper headquarters before declaring her and Mathuki as gubernatorial aspirants had said the two agreed to share government on 50-50 basis should they win the August 8 election. Claims have also been peddled that political differences between Machakos Senator, Johnstone Muthama and Kalonzo was responsible for the &#39;punishment&#39; meted on political aspirants allied to the senator some of whom have received letters from the party&#39;s national elections board stating that they did not meet the party&#39;s criteria to participate in the exercise. ALSO READ: Court extends nominations deadline to May 1 At the same time, an MCA aspirant who had signed up for the party&#39;s nomination exercise hinted that the disgruntled aspirants were set to join the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party on Tuesday. &nbsp;&quot;I can confirm that we will tomorrow be received by ODM leadership at Orange House where we will announce our decision to quit Wiper and get tickets to vie for our different seats,&quot; he said. &nbsp;Therefore tomorrow&#39;s nomination exercise will involve the County Women representative seat where the incumbent, Dr Susan Musyoka will face off with Joyce Kamene Kasimbi. In Machakos Town Constituency, former chief officer in the county government, Jackson Kala will battle out with former Knut national treasurer, Urbanus Mutisya, while in Mwala Constituency former MP Daniel Muoki will face off with Urbanus Muthama. In Masinga constituency, the contest has attracted three aspirants namely Lawrence Maingi, Isaac Muinde and Festus Kisilu.?