More than 48 hours after they cast their votes, residents of Kisumu, Homa Bay and Migori are yet to know who won. The Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party has remained mum on the nomination stalemate in the three counties, where naming of gubernatorial flag bearers has been put on hold due to disputes. Nomination results for Migori and Homa Bay were cancelled even after governors Okoth&nbsp;Obado&nbsp;and Cyprian Awiti were declared winners. This was after their opponents, Ochillo Ayacko (Migori) and Oyugi Magwanga (Homa Bay) rejected the results. Arch rivals In Kisumu, arch-rivals Governor Jack Ranguma and Senator Anyang Nyong&rsquo;o were both issued with provisional certificates after they were announced winners. The&nbsp; two opponents are clinging to two certificates for one seat and from the same party. ALSO READ: Incumbent MPs lose out to newcomers and political greenhorns Thursday, Mr Ranguma insisted he won the nominations and wondered why Prof Nyong&rsquo;o was in possession of another certificate. &ldquo;I think it would be important for the National Elections Board to tell us&nbsp; why they are issuing certificates to two aspirants for one seat,&rdquo; said&nbsp; Ranguma. Ranguma accused the party&rsquo;s elections board of disrespecting the voters by issuing certificates to poll losers. Out of the four counties, only Siaya appears to have successfully picked a nominee for the governor&rsquo;s seat, Governor Cornell Rasanga, although his nomination is also facing a string of protests. The delay in resolving the disputes has raised political temperatures and put the ODM National Elections Board on the spot for allowing double issuance of certificates. Political pundits say nearly half of parliamentary party tickets across the region have double certificates. Muhoroni MP Onyango K&rsquo;Oyoo who was declared the winner is yet to receive a provisional certificate. He accuses his rival, Prof Ayiecho Olweny, trying to usurp his victory. ALSO READ: Former MPs get political lifeline after primaries &ldquo;I defeated him in broad daylight. We should stop playing with the intelligence of our people,&rdquo; said&nbsp; K&rsquo;Oyoo,&rdquo; More uncertainty looms in Kisumu East and West constituencies where a clear winner had not been announced by Thursday&nbsp;morning. Although&nbsp; Kisumu town East returning officer Thomas Riaga declared&nbsp; Nicholas Oricho as the winner, two of his opponents, incumbent&nbsp; Shakeel Shabir and Oselu Obondo, separately claimed they were the winners. In Kisumu Central, both incumbent MP Ken Obura&nbsp; and his opponent, Fred Ouda are both claiming the nomination ticket. Thursday, ODM Executive Director Oduor Ongwen called for calm, saying the&nbsp; National Elections Board(NEB) was handling the discrepancies. He clarified that nomination certificates will be issued in respective counties and not at Orange House where most of the aggrieved aspirants were rushing to. In a press release, Ongwen assured voters that the disputed on nomination certificates will be resolved in a week&rsquo;s time. ALSO READ: High Court orders MCAs be paid Sh4.8 billion salary for the seven months they will not be in office According to Ongwen, verification and final issuance of certificates to winners will start next week.