Unlike before when posters and billboards were the main means for candidates vying for different seats to get their message across, this year&rsquo;s campaign has brought in a new dimension. The aspirants have gone out of their way to hammer the point home by using innovative ways to sell their policies. Some political hopefuls have chosen to emblazon groceries with their photos and campaign mantras as the season of political games enters the homestretch. Others are donating foodstuff and clothes draped in their campaign posters as a way of popularising their candidature. In Mt Kenya region, aspirants are leaving nothing to chance as the nomination day finally arrives. A senatorial aspirant in Murang&rsquo;a, for example, has been distributing matchboxes with his photograph and this has been a subject of discussion in nearly all forums. ALSO READ: NASA to name flag bearer on Thursday Unique entry Joseph Mbai, who is seeking to replace Kembi Gitura, has distributed nearly 200,000 matchboxes with his portrait. &ldquo;I used the matchbox as a unique entry into politics and it was widely accepted. This is how many people came to know of my candidature. I had also served as a chief officer in charge of health and interacted with many people,&rdquo; Mbai said. In the period leading up to the nominations, Murang&rsquo;a Governor Mwangi wa Iria has been distributing maize seeds with his photograph. Iria distributed the seeds to more than 210,000 households in Murang&rsquo;a last month. The purpose, he said, was to support food security strategies at the household level. The move to distribute these seedlings, bought by the county government, with his photograph on the pack has drawn criticism from his political rivals but Iria has stood firm. ALSO READ: It's D-Day for Jubilee dream as bigwigs fight for survival &ldquo;There is nothing wrong with my picture being on the products supported by my administration,&rdquo; he said. Another aspirant who has decided to do his campaign differently is George Maara, who is vying for the Limuru parliamentary seat. Maara recently gave locals branded loaves of bread and packets of salt. The products had his portrait and the name and symbol of Jubilee Party whose ticket he hopes to bag in today&rsquo;s primaries. Over in Nyanza, creativity and innovation have also spiced up campaigns in the region. Some aspirants have gone a notch higher to re-brand the Orange Party in a way that is unprecedented in its scale and style. They are hoping to make the orange &ldquo;juicier&rsquo;&rsquo;, relevant and active in the hyper-competitive political scene. ALSO READ: Jubilee postpones nominations for Nairobi County In Karachuonyo, one of the aspirants, Anderson Ojwang, has come up with a matchbox slogan, saying he will be the source of light for the people of Karachuonyo if elected. Mr Ojwang said he chose a matchbox because it&nbsp; has to be in every household. &ldquo;To cook a meal, every family in these rural areas must use a matchbox. This is why I am distributing branded matchboxes,&rdquo; he said. His slogan is &ldquo;Osemoke&ldquo; meaning it has been lit. One of the branded blankets Kisumu Town East MP, is distributing to his supporters a head of the party nominations. The blanket has his name printed on it. Pictures/ Courtesy Extreme measures Ojwang has been going around the constituency donating lorry loads of matchboxes bearing his campaign insignia and brand slogan Osemoke to mean the region has started to see the light. The slogan has been well received and loathed in equal measure. Some see the concept of Osemoke as a prelude to stoke fire while others say match boxes are not a solution to their problems. Some aspirants have however, gone to the extreme, distributed underwear branded with their names and slogans. ALSO READ: Jubilee postpones nominations for Nairobi County Kisumu woman representative aspirant Rose Nyamunga also has some tokens of art for her campaign materials. She is giving away bags, handkerchiefs, scarves and&nbsp;kangas;&nbsp;all branded in her name and political party of her choice.