Confusion has marred Jubilee party primaries in Kisii and Nyamira as aspirants complain over missing parliamentary ballot papers in today&#39;s primaries. A handful of party supporters have turned up at polling centers to vote for their preferred candidate for the County MP and MCAs&#39; seats with three candidates set to battle it out for the ticket. Tuesday, one candidate, Mrs Judith Miruka bowed out of the race and instead offered to support her competitor Dorice Donya. The incumbent Mrs Sally Otara who defected from ODM is also facing another aspirant Mrs Briget Omabti. Only ballot papers for County MP and Members of the County Assembly have been dispatched to constituencies. This justifies early reports that there could have been a pre-election agreement to have some individuals (incumbent MPs) given direct nomination certificates. Six out of nine MPs in Kisii are attached to Jubilee party. With ballot papers having not been delivered, they stand a chance to defect their seats on the Jubilee ticket during the August general election. ALSO READ: Why IEBC should learn from Kenya&rsquo;s great political parties Ballot papers for the gubernatorial contest have not been dispatched either. Current Kisii Senator Chris Obure is seeking the County&#39;s top seat under Jubilee ticket after defecting from ODM. Alfred Nyangweso was set to compete with Obure for the Jubilee ticket. On Tuesday Mr Nyangweso threated to go to court if the party was to exclude him from the ballot. &quot;I have not been consulted on any plans to have consensus,&quot; he said. However, a source within the party says that all aspirants met in Nairobi early last week and agreed on consensus to pick Jubilee party flag bearers both in Kisii and Nyamira. Kitutu Chache North MP aspirant has confirmed that there are no ballot papers for parliamentary seats. Already voters at Marani polling station in Kitutu Chache North have stormed out of the station saying they will not cast their votes until they have received ballot papers for the parliamentary seat. In Bonchari, voters have also sent away poll officials demanding ballot papers for the parliamentary seat where a female aspirant Mary Ratemo was fighting for the ticket with the current MP Zebedeo Opore. Isaac Motari, Jubilee County Secretary in Kisii says there will be not voting for the governor&#39;s seat. &quot;We have confirmed that voting is underway for the MCA and County MP&#39;s seats,&quot; says Mr Motari. ALSO READ: Violence in Gatundu South over missing ballot boxes The same scenario replicates across the neighboring Nyamira County with voters also free to vote for the Woman Representative and MCAS. Former MP Walter Nyambati who has been given the ticket was to battle for the JP ticket with Charles Mochama who has threatened to call for demonstrations across the county over the party&#39;s move.&nbsp; &nbsp;