President Kenyatta affirmed that the Jubilee administration was a party of unity and actions. &ldquo;As Jubilee, we are people of action. We know where we want to take this country unlike those in Opposition who are only focusing on tribalism,&rdquo; said the President when he addressed locals at Narok Stadium. He said NASA leaders were disappointed with Jubilee Party (JP) because his working relationship with Ruto was devoid of squabbles as witnessed between ODM Leader Raila Odinga and retired President Mwai Kibaki during the coalition government era. He said the Jubilee administration will spend Sh13 billion to construct roads in Narok County and asked the Maasai community to vote for him. The Jubilee leaders said NASA leaders were only power-hungry and have no clear development agenda for the country. They launched Kilgoris market, Transmara West Hospital, a Sh1.5 billion Narok Water project constructed by the Kenyan Government and the Japan International Corporation Agency (JICA). Other projects launched included the over Sh300 million Narok Stadium and the Sh2 billion Narok-Sekenani Gate Road. ALSO READ: Rachel Shebesh accuses Jubilee aspirants of pride Uhuru also reiterated that the JP primaries set for April 21 shall be free and fair, saying that unlike NASA, JP will not dish out direct tickets to any aspirant and will only work with leaders chosen directly by the electorate. &ldquo;I am not abusing anybody but what remarkable thing did our friend do to the people of Narok in all those years he served in government to warrant their support? Opposition leaders are busy dividing Kenyans along tribal lines, which is not good,&rsquo;&rsquo; said President Kenyatta. On his part, DP Ruto said Jubilee will be banking on its scorecard for the last five years to clinch his seat come the General Election. He dared the four NASA principals to present to Kenyans what they have done in the last 30 years they have been in government. &ldquo;We are telling our friends in Opposition that the die is cast. Let the Opposition settle on their flag bearer to battle with Jubilee. I am sure we will win the battle to continue with the development agenda we launched in 2013,&rdquo; Ruto said. He added: &ldquo;Our friends in the Opposition have been in Kenya for several years and failed to deliver the kind of development we have managed in the last four years. They have failed and have nothing to offer and we shall beat them.&rdquo; Mega corruption Leader of Majority in the National Assembly Aden Duale took a swipe at NASA leaders, saying they were involved in mega corruption scandals that have strained the country&rsquo;s economy. He urged Narok residents to reject politics advanced by the Opposition. ALSO READ: State now waives fees for land title searches Narok Governor Samuel Tunai said the Jubilee had appointed three permanent secretaries and a Cabinet secretary alongside several top posts in government parastatals despite the area voting for the Opposition. &ldquo;Narok has immensely benefited from Jubilee. It is time to ditch empty politics that have been dominating the Maasai and support the President,&rdquo; Tunai said. Other leaders that spoke at the rally asked the government to extend the livestock off-take programme to several farmers in the county whose livestock have been affected by the ongoing drought.