&nbsp; Kiambu Governor William Kabogo on the campaign trail in the county Kiambu Governor William Kabogo has denied accusations of frustrating his political opponents by unleashing terror gangs on them, insisting that he is in a clean campaign in his re-election bid. Kabogo has been embroiled in a political battle with his opponents, led by Kabete MP Ferdinand Waititu who is seeking to displace him in the gubernatorial contest, with the fierce contest between their supporters often turning violent. Kabogo has been accused of playing dirty and unleashing goons on his opponents in a bid to frustrate those opposed to him and seeking to unseat him. But in an exclusive interview with The Standard Kabogo refuted claims, insisting that he has never enlisted terror gangs or goons on any of his opponent. Instead Kabogo claimed that his critics were keen on portraying him as violent. &quot;I am not a gangster. My opponents are keen on portraying me as a leader of a gang and a thug. The claims they have always made have never been substantiated anywhere,&quot; Kabogo said. ALSO READ: Parties&rsquo; shambolic primaries soiling our democracy profile He added: &quot;On the contrary, I am a very successful businessman, who has thrived through hard work. Now I am a successful Governor, but of course there are those who are keen on pulling me down by portraying me as abrasive and thriving on violence&quot;. He dismissed MPs, who have waged a fight against him as &quot;political amateurs&quot; keen to make a name by fighting him, saying he did not feel threatened by their decision to join hands with Waititu to unseat him. Apart from Waititu, Kabogo will also be facing James Nyoro, whom he floored in the last general election. He said that while he faced turbulence in the first years of devolution, facing strong opposition from the County Assembly members, he had since found a good working relationship with the county legislators, helping improve the rate of passing laws that can spur development in the county. &quot;Initially I had difficulties selling myself as a professional because I looked more like a herdsman, but when I hit the road, people realized that I was a manager. I was possibly the only Governor who did not reward his cronies in appointing my ministers (CECs), instead we engaged a firm to interview them. That is why I have such a competent team,&quot; he said.