&nbsp; Kenyans Thursday spoke about the triumphs of faith as they ushered in the Easter holidays. Over Easter, millions of Christians across the world celebrate the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. The period begins with Good Friday to mark the death of Christ and culminates in Easter Monday to celebrate His resurrection. This season however has different meanings for different people. Thursday, President Uhuru Kenyatta described Easter as &quot;a time when Christians reflect on the lessons from the temptation, trial, suffering, death and resurrection of Christ&quot;. The President said all people of all faiths could identify with the challenges, setbacks and adversities encountered from time to time in the struggle to realise life dreams. &quot;Even in the larger context of nation building, Easter teaches us that despite immense odds in accomplishing unity, prosperity and stability, our determination and sacrifice will be vindicated in the triumph of hope, faith and love,&quot; said Uhuru. Deputy President William Ruto urged Christians to reflect on God&#39;s good deeds and His love for the country, and to pray for peace and harmony at all times as they celebrate Easter. &quot;Let us abide by His teachings, be guided by His wisdom and grace, and seek His intervention in our lives,&quot; he said. Lydiah Kinyoli, a nurse, said Easter meant forgiveness of sin and at the same time it was a time for prayer, penance, fasting and forgiveness. &quot;It&#39;s a reminder of what I am worth and why I am not on my own. I just need to say yes and I am delivered,&quot; she added. Rhoda Munyi, an engineer, said Easter was a time when faith came to life. She said through Christ&#39;s resurrection, all Christians live in hope of resurrecting someday. Ms Munyi said the festivities should be more about worship than holidaying, adding that people ought to shun anything that does not glorify God. &quot;Easter is a time when we celebrate the forgiveness of our sins. It means that Jesus Christ died on the cross so that we could be delivered, and rose again as a sign of eternal life.&quot; Morgan Ochieng&#39; said Easter for him meant the end of Lent. &quot;Easter reminds us that God is forgiving, He is gracious and there is victory in Him as well as love,&quot; added.