Public displays of diverse opinions will not break up the National Super Alliance (NASA), Wiper Democratic Movement (WDM) Secretary General Hassan Omar, said Wednesday. He said he has been in constant communication with NASA principals Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetangula and the coalition was united and sound. The Mombasa senator who is close to the four NASA principals claimed that the information in public domain and what has been discussed in a recent retreat by the NASA principals was not the same, adding that the public was being treated to rumours. &quot;What is in public domain does not reflect the right position of NASA and should be treated as a rumour. The correct report should come from Raila, Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetungula,&quot; Omar said. Parties in the NASA- ODM, Amani National Congress, Ford-Kenya and Wiper- have been agitating for their respective leaders to be handed the coalition ticket as Jubilee leaders insisted the outfit was divided and was bound to collapse. But Senator Omar said Jubilee was in a fix because NASA remained united and would survive to the August 8 elections and send the government home. ALSO READ: Constant changes to election laws bode ill for Kenya Omar said the strong advocacy by various political parties under NASA was party of democracy and should not break up the outfit. He noted that for Wiper, supporters still strongly prefer Kalonzo to be NASA flagbearer. &quot;Secretaries general are guarantors and custodians of NASA and I can assure our supporters that it will not break up.&nbsp; Our principals have been dinning, and speaking one language. What has been happening is strong advocacy by parties for their leaders to be NASA flagbearer. &nbsp;But I can tell you that all is well in NASA,&quot; Omar said. Addressing his supporters at his office in Mombasa, Omar said he would have known as Wiper secretary general if there was any problem in the NASA talks. He took issue with agents of the Jubilee administration for allegedly pushing for the collapse of the Opposition outfit but said it the plan will fail. &quot;NASA is not disjointed. Any report that is not released by the principals should be treated as fictitious,&quot; Omar said.