After hours of anxiety and confusion voters in Nyandarua County disrupted voting exercise and burned ballot papers in several polling stations. As other counties called off the primaries after several hours of delays, voting in Nyandarua County kicked off at 11pm with several voters who had lined up for hours getting an opportunity to vote. After few hours of voting, Irate voters who accused the Jubilee Party of organizing shambolic primaries burned ballot papers in Wanjohi, Sophia, Mubao, Kipipiri, Ndaragwa, Wangui and Nyonjoro polling stations. Gubernatorial aspirant Francis Kimemia and Ndaragwa parliamentary aspirant George Gachagua protested against the insufficient of ballot papers saying that many voters had been left out in the exercise. At Nyandundo primary school where Kimemia voted, over 500 people did not take part in the exercise. &quot;The event had started on well apart from the delay but many voters have been left out in the exercise. We demand that the party headquarters intervene and have a solution to this problem,&quot; he said. In Ndaragwa, Gachagua lamented that there were no ballot papers forcing many residents not to take part in the exercise. &quot;In some polling stations, the exercise was over by 11 since there were no ballot papers. This is a shame to the party,&quot; he said. Elsewhere, there were protests among aspirants as ballot papers for various seats were not enough. Names of some voters were also missing from the voter register while in some cases, there was a mix up of the aspirant names being put in different categories. An angry incident was however witnessed in Ol Kalou town when supporters of woman MP aspirant Faith Gitau and the incumbent Wanjiku Muhia. This came even as one person was arrested at Nyandundo primary school in Nyandarua as he engaged in voter irregularity. The victim was arrested at the polling station with as he took photos of the ballot papers with intent of printing them. He was locked up at Milangine police station.