The defection of Wavinya Ndeti to Wiper Party has thrown a spanner into the works of what was perceived as a smooth-sailing re-election of Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua. The former Kathiani MP ditched her Chama cha Uzalendo (CCU) party and immediately declared she will be vying for the Machakos governorship on a Wiper ticket in the August 8 elections. Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka welcomed her and said Wavinya&rsquo;s candidature is a sure bet to reclaim the seat from Dr Mutua who quit and formed his Maendeleo Chap Chap Party. &ldquo;Wavinya Ndeti has been given permission by her party to join Wiper as a member,&rdquo; Mr Kalonzo told a cheering crowd at party headquarters in Lavington, Nairobi. Wavinya will have to battle it out with Deputy Governor Bernard Kiala for the Wiper ticket before she trains her eyes on her renewed rivalry with Dr Mutua. Her candidature is likely to cause a rift in Wiper since while the party leader seems to support her; Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama has put his weight on Mr Kiala. ALSO READ: Taj Mall owner joins politics to protect business &ldquo;Kiala is the Wiper candidate for the gubernatorial seat, he stands better chances,&rdquo; said Muthama. Wiper Secretary General Hassan Omar on the other hand, while welcoming Wavinya, argued that her candidature was a &ldquo;sure way to clip the wings of Mutua&rsquo;s MCC.&rdquo; If this will be construed to mean he endorses Wavinya for the seat, then it will mean that the former Kathiani MP enjoys support of Wiper Party top brass that will likely put Kiala at a disadvantaged position. Her running mate will be Peter Mathuki, the Wiper deputy secretary-general and a member of the East Africa Legislative Assembly. Kiala on his part said he would face Wavinya in the primaries before turning his gun on his boss. &ldquo;We are talking with Wavinya. If we agree, that will be good. She can step down for me but if we fail to agree then we will meet on April 21 nominations. Machakos residents have confidence in me and should I carry the Wiper ticket, I will beat Mutua in the morning,&rdquo; said Kiala. Dr Mutua dismissed Wavinya&rsquo;s candidature saying that she was a non-starter who will be rejected by Machakos residents as they did in 2013. ALSO READ: Leaders persuade Kalonzo to join Jubilee In the 2013 elections, Wavinya took on Dr Mutua and garnered 92,219 votes against his 257,367. The rivalry will be renewed in the August elections, which promises to be highly competitive.&nbsp;