Kanu Chairman Gideon Moi&nbsp;led thousands of party supporters in launching former Teachers Service Commission Gabriel Lengoiboni&rsquo;s bid for the Samburu governorship. Gideon also officially welcomed Samburu Woman Representative Maison Leshomo, Senator Simon Leshore and his nominated counterpart Naisula Lesuuda who have decamped from Jubilee Party. &ldquo;The residents of Samburu have now gone back to the original party. Kanu is a party for all Kenyans and will serve all without favour,&rdquo; he said. Gideon said Kanu would field candidates in all the 15 wards in the county, and would have candidates vying for the senate, the governorship as well as the woman representative position. &ldquo;I urge all Samburu residents to vote for Kanu candidates during the August General Election. We have candidates for all the seats in the county and we are banking on your support,&rdquo; he said. Yesterday, Kanu opened party offices in Maralal town before launching Lengoiboni&rsquo;s bid to oust Governor Moses Lenolkulal. ALSO READ: KANU promise to women aspirants Lengoiboni said he has had a good track record at the TSC and was now ready to serve Samburu County as governor. &ldquo;If I managed 47 counties, do you think only one county will challenge me?&rdquo; he said. Lengoiboni said his administration would focus on improving access to water, education and infrastructure, which he said has been deteriorating under the current administration. Lengoiboni accused Lenolkulal&rsquo;s administration of advancing nepotism in the county public service. He also faulted it for unfairly distributing resources. Gideon was accompanied by West Pokot Senator John Lonyangapuo, nominated senators Zipporah Kittony, Paul Njoroge and Lesuuda; Laikipia senatorial aspirant Maina Njenga and former Information Minister Samuel Poghisio. Lonyangapuo criticised the ongoing security operation in the neighbouring Laikipia County where hundreds of livestock have been killed by security officers. He urged the pastoralist communities, including&nbsp; the Samburu, Pokot and Turkana, to coexist peacefully. ALSO READ: Jubilee, Kanu rivals set for titanic battle in West Pokot Njoroge asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to order police officers to stop killing livestock and destroying people&rsquo;s property. Lesuuda, who is vying for the Samburu West parliamentary seat, accused the current Samburu administration of nepotism and corruption.&nbsp; She urged residents to vote out the current administration, saying it had a poor development record. &ldquo;They have vowed to rig us out or buy voters. Eat their money, but vote for us,&rdquo; she said.&nbsp;