Governor Sospeter Ojaamong and Funyula MP Paul Otuoma will today know who will vie for the gubernatorial seat on an ODM ticket. The two have held massive campaigns that have seen them traverse different areas in the county seeking political support ahead of nominations. Though the nominations will include other seats, all eyes will be on the governorship. Nominations for the senatorial seat will not be conducted since Senator Amos Wako was given the party ticket last week. Received materials Paul Otuoma, MP for Funyula constituency Busia County Orange party secretary general Innocent Oluku confirmed yesterday that all nomination materials had been received. ALSO READ: Focus on boiling hot spots as ODM nominations near Mr Oluku said the primaries will start at 6am and close at 5pm in the 175 polling stations. &ldquo;We have already trained presiding officers and polling clerks and they will report at their centres at 4am,&rdquo; said Oluku. He issued a stern warning to candidates who will attempt to cause violence at any polling station, saying they would be disqualified. &ldquo;Any attempt to cause violence will amount to disqualification of the candidate and prosecution,&rdquo; he said. Contrary to what some aspirants have been telling their supporters - that anyone with an ID card is eligible to vote today - Oluku observed that only ODM members will be allowed to vote. &ldquo;IDs will only help in identification of a person to confirm from the register whether he or she is an ODM member,&rdquo; the&nbsp; secretary general clarified. Mr Ojaamong is adamant that Otuoma should not be entrusted with the leadership of the county. ALSO READ: Political parties collect Sh2 billion in nomination fees &ldquo;The work I started must be completed. I am urging you to come out in large numbers and vote for me so that I can get the ticket and retain my seat,&rdquo; Ojaamong told resident of Changara in Teso North. Failed to deliver But Otuoma insists Ojaamong has let down residents and does not deserve another term. &ldquo;There is nothing to be proud of as residents of Busia because the current leadership has failed to deliver,&rdquo; said Otuoma. Yesterday, the pair preached peace and rallied their troops to remain calm during nominations. ODM Youth League chairman James Anyango also urged youth to embrace peace. He called on the County Elections Board to conduct free, fair and transparent nominations that would be accepted by all candidates. ALSO READ: ODM office closed over allegations of rigging party nominations &ldquo;If aspirants are satisfied with the results of the nominations, there will be no violence. Those charged with managing the process must do it transparently,&rdquo; said Mr Anyango. The issue of loyalty in the party has played out in most of Ojaamong&rsquo;s campaigns where he has accused Otuoma of ditching the party only to make a U-turn.