Last week, President Uhuru Kenyatta signed into law the Prevention of Torture Bill. The law guarantees citizens freedom from torture, cruelty and punishment; vices that have often been associated with law enforcement agencies in their line of duty. This new law is in keeping with the Kenya Constitution 2010 that guarantees the individual freedoms aligned to the protection of human dignity. The Kenya National Commission on Human Rights has over the years decried human rights violations in the country perpetrated by so-called State actors under the guise of maintaining law and order. KNCHR had little leeway to investigate these cases beyond highlighting them. That is set to change. Needless to say, the tragedy has been that the police routinely deny claims of torture; making it difficult to ascertain the truth. In any case, expecting the police to investigate themselves and return a guilty verdict is hoping for the impossible. The violation of human rights, more pronounced when the police are extracting information from suspects or while dealing with cases of political dissent and mostly terrorism, has led to the disappearance of at least 300 people since 2006 according to Human Rights Watch. And even now in parts of the North Rift, there have been reports of human rights violations as the officers flush out suspected bandits. Last year, after suspected criminals broke into a police post in Mumias Sub County in Kakamega County and stole seven guns leading to a police operation to recover the guns, residents protested against cases police torture. The Prevention of Torture Bill that President Kenyatta assented is therefore welcome for, among other provisions, it provides for reparations to torture victims and those who have encountered cruelty, inhuman or degrading treatment in the hands of law-enforcers. Notably, the law also empowers the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights to independently investigate alleged violations. This gives it more room to operate and do thorough investigations where human rights are violated. Outlawing torture is a move in the right direction. The law prescribes penalties for wrong doers, but torture is not among them.&nbsp; ALSO READ: The president&rsquo;s men: Who-is-who inside the house on the hill?