1. Register the company You can set up a partnership, sole proprietorship or limited company. However, you can also start a small outfit from home. Linda Chuka, who runs a food business that today employs 22 people, says she started out baking cakes and breads from her house for friends and family. &ldquo;You don&rsquo;t need to make it official immediately, especially if you can provide all the labour necessary. When work picks up, then set up a legal entity and get the licensing required,&rdquo; she says. 2. Licences You will need a business permit from the county you operate in. You will also need a food handling medical certificate, which ensures food handlers are free from disease, and is valid for six months. It costs Sh600. Your bakery outlet will also need a food hygiene certificate, valid for a year, and whose costs start at Sh300 and depend on the size of your establishment. You also need a Sh3,000 fire safety certificate, valid for a year. 3. Capital According to Alex Milenye, the director and CEO at Kijiji Cuisine, which runs a bakery and offers outside catering, you will need start-up capital of at least Sh100,000 to set up a small outlet. This will cater for the costs of supplies and simple machinery. Linda agrees with this, saying this is what she started her home bakery with. For a bigger outlet, Linday says, you need at least Sh700,000, with a commercial oven alone costing at least Sh400,000. What you don&rsquo;t need 1. A lot of space or sophisticated equipment According to Hellena Mumbi, the CEO of Bakers Island which has outlets in Kasarani and Ngara in Nairobi, you don&rsquo;t need a lot of space or commercial machinery to get started: &ldquo;Just look for the simplest things to start, and then get everything else as you grow. The secret is just to start.&rdquo; 2. Unique recipes You don&rsquo;t need to come up with products that are completely original. &ldquo;What you can do is jazz up the basics. Be creative with the ingredients that you mix together,&rdquo; says Linda. 3. A client list Start your business with family and friends, or bake a cake or bread for your church, a family function or even a charitable cause. The referrals will push your business, says Linda.