&nbsp; &nbsp; Leaders elected to speak for and on behalf of the Kamba nation have called global attention on the community. Some for good reason and some for not so good reasons. Whichever way one looks at Kenya&rsquo;s turbulent political landscape, the Kamba nation will either make or break the next presidency of our republic. But first things first. On Monday, the people of Kitui County set a new standard in Choice 2017. They taught the rest of the country an important lesson in peaceful elections. Generally and comparatively, they conducted themselves very well at the polling stations as they participated in the Wiper Democratic Movement primaries. Later in the day, they were calm at tallying centres. Unfortunately, they were let down by the National Elections Board of the Wiper party, which lost control of the final tallying process. The announcement of the results was inordinately delayed, thereby creating room for suspicions and unnecessary tension. That is now behind us but there are important lessons to learn at personal, party and community levels. Fast forward to Thursday when the NASA presidential line-up is unveiled. Opinion is sharply divided on whether or not the Raila-Kalonzo ticket is strong enough to deliver victory on the ballot. ALSO READ: Mudavadi says he sacrificed presidency for the sake of Kenya Interestingly, Jubilee leaders and their surrogates in NASA are shouting themselves hoarse, predicting loss for the opposition coalition on August 8. I am very sure NASA will receive and make good use of advice on how best to govern this country. But surely that advice cannot and will not come from Jubilee. Somebody remind Jubilee that they have their campaign to run. Somebody tell Jubilee that for them to stand the slightest chance of retaining power, they must do more than shouting at NASA across the fence. Somebody tell Jubilee that they must do a lot more than compromise a few NASA leaders. Unfortunately for Jubilee and their sympathisers in NASA, the writing is clearly on the wall. It is time to pack and go. And to put the record straight, NASA is not about Raila Odinga neither is it about Kalonzo Musyoka. NASA is not about which politician or community gets what position. NASA is about the liberation of this great nation from grand corruption, chronic tribalism, raw arrogance and gross impunity perpetrated by Jubilee. NASA is about returning Kenya to Kenyans and making life bearable for the millions of Kenyans impoverished by the Jubilee misrule. Anyone who stands in the way of this liberation will be swept away to oblivion. Not long ago, members of NASA affiliate parties, including yours faithfully, were vigorously pushing for their respective party leaders to fly the NASA presidential flag. And that push served to strengthen the coalition&rsquo;s internal democracy. We are now past that phase because our principals have agreed on the ticket. Going forward, all Kenyans who want real change in governance must begin to preach the liberation gospel of NASA in every village in this country. Truth be told, NASA is not a perfect union. No political union is perfect. NASA is a coalition of the willing. It is the duty and responsibility of all leaders in the coalition to inspire confidence in the people they lead to build the coalition to near perfection. Take this to a safe bank: there is no snow ball&rsquo;s chance in hell fire that Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka will bolt out of NASA. The Kamba nation stands to be counted among other communities that are uniting to liberate Kenya from Jubilee. And that is the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth. Take it or leave it. ALSO READ: Graft fears as thrashed governors still in office Mr Wambua is a media/communication consultant and Wiper candidate for Senator of Kitui County