&nbsp; Members of the county assembly have criticised the Nairobi County executive for failing to implement the budgets passed over the past four years. This happened Thursday when County Finance Executive Gregory Mwakanongo read the Sh35.9 billion budget, which was approved by the MCAs. The ward legislators hailed the provisions of the 2017-18 budget, but were concerned that it would suffer the same fate as its predecessors since 2013. Nominated MCA, Caroline Muga supported the budget, especially with regards to the education and youth sector that has been allocated Sh1.3 billion. She, however, expressed fears that there would be no reforms in the sector since the executive would not implement the budget. &quot;We have been passing the budgets for the past three years as required but hitting road blocks when it comes to implementation by the county executive. I hope it will implement this budget to change the lives of Nairobi residents,&quot; said Muga. ALSO READ: Navigating huge recurrent bill a headache for Rotich in 2018 Budget Push and pull MCA Alexina Moddy, also nominated, blamed the push and pull between the county assembly and the county executive for the drag in implementation of projects. She singled out sectors such as the environment and education as the most affected due to lack of actualisation of budget figures. &quot;Majority of classrooms have not been put in place and I do need to tell you how the environment has been in the last three years. Residents should go after the executive that is supposed to execute and not the ward reps,&quot; she said. Kahawa West MCA, Chege Ngaruiya was concerned that ward reps were getting bashed by Nairobi residents for seemingly having done nothing, yet the executive was to blame. &quot;The electorate does not understand that our work is to legislate and the executive to implement and that is why some residents say we have failed,&quot; said Ngaruiya. Budget and appropriation committee chairman, Michael Ogada said that only five per cent of the budget was implemented by the relevant departments which resulted to slow service delivery for the city. Increased funds ALSO READ: Do you have a sponsor? No, not that kind ... &quot;The buck stops with the executive because the next team of MCAs that will take over in August will be implementing the budget that we have approved. The planning does not match the execution and this has to change,&quot; he said. The approved 2017-18 city budget has increased from Sh34.4 billion to Sh35.9 billion. Approximately Sh24.1 billion will be used on recurrent expenditure and Sh11.7 billion will go towards development. The transport sector has been allocated the lion&#39;s share of the development fund which is Sh4.9 billion. Head of budget James Ngunjiri said the money will be used to complete infrastructure projects that have stalled since 2013. A report released by the Budget and Appropriations committee early last year showed 181 projects have stalled for lack of funds. The Ward development fund was allocated Sh1.73 billion, health sector has been allocated Sh1.2 billion for development. This includes Sh484 million to buy drugs and Sh800 million to rehabilitate of health centers. Environment and water Sh900 million, Trade and commerce Sh560 million. The office of the governor was awarded Sh373.4 million, Education and youth affairs Sh345 million, County assembly Sh320 million, ICT Sh173 million, Finance and Economic planning Sh170 million, Agriculture and fisheries Sh154 million, urban renewal and housing Sh180 million and Sh90 million for emergency fund. ALSO READ: MCAs pocket Sh168m in imprest but skip devolution conference