Kitui Senator David&nbsp;Musila&nbsp;has blamed his party leader Kalonzo Musyoka for his loss to Governor Julius Malombe in the Wiper party nominations. Mr&nbsp;Musila&nbsp;claimed Kalonzo conspired with his opponent to have him (the opponent) announced the winner of the vote that he says was marred with irregularities, which included intimidation and violence. Musila&nbsp;polled 74,308 votes against Dr Malombe&rsquo;s 88,380 votes. He claimed that despite the high voter turnout, the process was flawed. &ldquo;There were several instances where returning officers were waylaid by goons and forced to change results,&rdquo; claimed the senator. Denied access Speaking in his office on Wednesday night,&nbsp;Musila&nbsp;said returning officers for Kitui East, Kitui South and Mwingi West constituencies were denied access to the tallying centre and could not submit results. ALSO READ: Using electoral system to fight corruption He further claimed that despite the National Election Board (NEB) instructing that the results be submitted to the party headquarters, the party leader ordered that the results generated by his opponent be announced at the tallying centre. &ldquo;This is without reference to the NEB officials who had fled Kitui town due to insecurity,&rdquo; said&nbsp;Musila, who added that he had humbled himself to be subjected to party primaries despite being the founder and chair of the party. The county party Returning Officer Joseph Mutinda handed over Malombe the certificate after his victory at Kitui&rsquo;s Multipurpose Training Institute. &ldquo;I wish to declare Julius Makau Malombe who garnered 88,380 votes as the duly nominated Wiper candidate for the Kitui gubernatorial seat in August 8 elections,&rdquo; Mutinda said amid cheers from a frenzied crowd. Earlier, anxiety and confusion gripped the county after the Wiper Elections Board delayed to release the results for more than 30 hours. After he was declared the winner, Malombe extended an olive branch to&nbsp;Musila&nbsp;and urged him to support him to retain his seat. &ldquo;I urge&nbsp;Musila&nbsp;to stick to his word and support my candidature in order to make Wiper party a vibrant and a strong outfit towards and after the general polls,&rdquo; Malombe said. ALSO READ: Using electoral system to fight corruption Shed tears There was a light moment when&nbsp;Malombe&rsquo;s wife shed tears of joy after her husband was declared the winner. Former Standard editor Enock Wambua won the party&rsquo;s ticket to contest for the Senate seat. Mr Wambua got 99,694 votes, beating his sole rival Paul Mutisya who managed 38,545 votes. &ldquo;God has spoken. The great people of Kitui County have spoken. And the message is loud and clear,&rdquo; Wambua happily said. Mr Wambua thanked the people of Kitui for overwhelmingly voting for him. &ldquo;I say thank you so much. And to those who voted for my worthy opponent, I humbly welcome you to join my team to work together with us in the best interest of all of us,&rdquo; he said. [Paul Mutua, Graham Kajilwa and Thandiwe Yego] ALSO READ: High Court orders MCAs be paid Sh4.8 billion salary for the seven months they will not be in office