KAKAMEGA: Members of Amani National Congress (ANC) have said the party will go it alone if Musalia Mudavadi is not picked as the NASA flag-bearer. Delegates and aspirants from Kakamega, Bungoma, Busia, Vihiga, and Trans Nzoia counties said Mudavadi must be on the ballot as a presidential candidate. &quot;We are tired of supporting other people and communities. It is our time to contest for the top seat,&quot; said Martin Waliaula, the ANC branch secretary for Bungoma County. He argued that NASA is made up of two major affliates &ndash; ANC and CORD&nbsp;&ndash; and that each side should produce either the president or the deputy. He said Mudavadi is the founder of NASA and should not accept a chief minister&#39;s slot. &quot;We do not want anything except the presidency. CORD should produce one person to be either president or deputy but not to claim all the top seats,&quot; he said. ALSO READ: Of politics, political capital and overnight sensations Adrian Meja, an ANC parliamentary aspirant in Shinyalu, dismissed a Raila-Kalonzo ticket, saying it will guarantee President Uhuru Kenyatta and Jubilee an early victory. &quot;ODM and other parties in NASA are wasting time arguing that a Raila-Kalonzo ticket will win the election. If Mudavadi will not be picked, then it means we have to forget the presidency because President Uhuru will win,&quot; said Meja. He said the Opposition should change its line-up if it wants to beat the incumbent. &ldquo;Raila-Kalonzo contested against President Uhuru Kenyatta and he defeated them. We cannot present the same pair against him (Uhuru) because he will defeat them again. Mudavadi will make a change for the Opposition to win,&rdquo; he said. Cleophas Malala of Kakamega argued that the chief minister position is unconstitutional. &ldquo;Mudavadi is the preferred candidate. He is the symbol of unity and we will not accept anything less than Mudavadi being the NASA flag-bearer,&rdquo; said Malala. But ANC Secretary-General Godfrey Osotsi dismissed the aspirants, saying the&nbsp; decision for ANC to go it alone lies with the National Executive Council, the National Governing Council, and the National Delegates Convention. ALSO READ: ODM to give verdict after violence probe &ldquo;ANC members should be calm and wait for the discussions to be concluded. It is wrong to respond to media reports yet the principals have not made any conclusion,&rdquo; Osotsi told The Standard on the phone. He said ANC is the founder of NASA and therefore cannot rock the alliance from within.