Funyula MP Paul Otuoma has said he will not fall into tricks by Orange House to conduct another nomination for the Busia gubernatorial seat. He said the date set for the primaries was suspect. Otuoma while on his meet-the-people tour in Changara, Nambale, Butula, Omena Beach, Lunyofu and Port Victoria told his supporters that he will not be subjected to other primaries. According to the legislator, the party was scheming to lock him out of the race. &ldquo;We won the nomination in day light and what we want is our certificate,&rdquo; said Otuoma. His camp had issued a 48 hours ultimatum to Orange House, which expires today, to issue Otuoma with certificate failure to which they will seek guidance from members of public about the next course of action. Otuoma&rsquo;s statement&nbsp;comes on a day that ODM reaffirmed a repeat of the party primaries on April 25. National Elections Board Chair Judith Pareno, however, said the nominations will only be repeated in Teso North and Teso North constituencies. Monday, all aspirants who clinched ODM ticket in the concluded nominations met and pledged to remain united in selling the manifesto of the party to electorate. ALSO READ: How political parties collected billions from aspirants The team, including nominees for the members of county assembly and parliamentary aspirants, underscored that they were keen on winning many elective seats for the party. Meanwhile Busia governor Sospeter Ojaamong has warned people he termed as &#39;outsiders&#39; against meddling in the county politics. The county boss was responding to a statement that was made by Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo demanding for the disqualification of the Ojaamong from contesting for any seat on ODM rigging claims in last week&rsquo;s nominations. &ldquo;Unless Midiwo wants to vie for the governorship of Busia County because the law allows him otherwise he should stop meddling in the politics of Busia. His statement is incitement to the public,&rdquo; said Ojaamong. &ldquo;The matter will be solved by people of Busia County but not anyone from outside. In fact, all aspirants who participated in the nominations are content with the outcomes, only one individual protested but soon we will reach truce,&rdquo; he added. [email&#160;protected] ALSO READ: How political parties collected billions from aspirants