Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang&rsquo;i has appointed four members to the Commission&nbsp;for University Education (CUE). Elizabeth Muli, Nazeer Ladhani, Anne Muigai and Lucy Kambuni are the new commissioners as the term of previous team comes to an end. The names are contained in a gazzette notice that states that the commissioners will serve for&nbsp;three years with effect from April 12, 2017. Prof Chacha Nyaigotti Chacha is the new CUE chairperson replacing&nbsp;Prof Henry Moses Thairu. Other CUE commissioners were James Patrick Ochieng, Wilson Langat, Millicent Omukaga, Lucy Wanja Julius and Abudo Qonchoro Mamo. The appointment comes as the Chief executive Officer Prof David Some&#39;s contract comes to an end. Prof Some is serving a&nbsp;mandatory six-month&nbsp;terminal leave. ALSO READ: Foreign degrees must match local standards, Matiang'i warns Anxiety had gripped CUE as term of present commissioners was set to end this month. This year&rsquo;s recruitment will be a departure from the past where the position was filled by former&nbsp;vice chancellors of public universities. For the first time, a former vice chancellor may not be appointed to head&nbsp;CUE secretariat as qualifications have been expanded by&nbsp;Universities (amendment) Act to include a minimum requirements of a Master&rsquo;s degree. Section 11 of&nbsp;Universities (amendment) Act says: &ldquo;A person shall be qualified for appointment as a Commission Secretary if he or she holds a masters degree from a recognized university in Kenya and also has ten years&rsquo; experience in the management of a university.&rdquo; Former University of Nairobi Vice-Chancellor Prof Joseph Mungai was the founding CEO of CUE. He was appointed in 1985. Prof Justin Irina was the second CEO of CUE.&nbsp; He was the Vice Chancellor of Moi University (1994-1988). Other VCs appointed CUE secretaries include Prof Crispus Kiamba (UoN), Prof Everett Standa (former Vice Chancellor at Kenyatta University) and now Prof David Some (former VC Moi University). ALSO READ: CS Fred Matiang&rsquo;i blames Judiciary for fake degrees