ODM is accusing police of failing to contain violence witnessed in its ongoing primaries. The party has singled out chaotic scenes in Migori on Thursday, where hired goons disrupted a meeting of its electoral officials in the presence of security agents. Secretary General Agnes Zani yesterday said police did not act as goons attacked ODM election officials in front of TV cameras. The ODM boss claimed police officers have not been deployed equitably in NASA and Jubilee strongholds. &ldquo;To date, no arrests have been made. The culprits are on camera yet none of them has been arrested. Those who sent them are admitting on camera yet no action is being taken,&rdquo; she said. Addressing a press conference at Orange House, Nairobi, Dr Zani said in spite President Uhuru Kenyatta giving a stern warning to those who cause violence that they will face the full force of the law, violence remains widespread. &ldquo;Yesterday&rsquo;s attack by hired goons on a meeting of the County Election Board at Rakwaro Catholic Hall in Migori was a clear manifestation of the intent by some forces within the county who enjoy police protection to cause chaos during the nominations scheduled for April 24,&rdquo; she said. Stern warning ALSO READ: Violence in Migori as claims of rigging primaries emerge She claimed police were ignoring ODM areas so that more chaos would erupt so that Jubilee can portray ODM as disorganised. &ldquo;The thugs who ruled Migori yesterday have been let to roam the county freely so that they can continue causing chaos and intimidating people during nominations and Jubilee can use it to discredit us. ODM shall not accept this,&rdquo; she added. At the same time, the party warned leaders from Migori that a stern action will be taken if they perpetrate violence on Monday. &ldquo;As a party, we sound a stern warning to politicians in Migori hell bent to cause violence during the party nominations that we shall not condone their behaviour. They will be disqualified from running on the party ticket and barred from engaging in any party activities.&rdquo;