Opiyo Wandayi: I don&rsquo;t quite agree with him. All those things Murgor is whining about could possibly be true. But they&rsquo;re not enough to make a serious presidential contender quit the race even before it starts. Moreover, one of the factors that drive progressive individuals to pursue political power is the desire to right the wrongs in society - the very wrongs that Philip Murgor is citing for his premature surrender! I&rsquo;ve always argued that in the present Kenya&rsquo;s political landscape, there&rsquo;s is no room for the so-called third force. One supports the retention of the status quo, hence goes to bed with the reactionary forces, or joins the progressive forces to fight for positive change in society. There are no two ways about it. ODM and its partners have been consistent in fighting for this change. Jubilee, on the other hand, has resisted this change. Indeed, in its zeal to subvert the change agenda, Jubilee has, from time to time, sponsored individuals that come out preaching the &lsquo;third force&rsquo; mantra just to conceal their true identities. The strategy is to try and divide the votes of communities seen to be opposition-leaning. Sadly, some of these individuals, sometimes, unknowingly fall into the trap. Luckily, Kenyans have become wiser and are determined to beat Jubilee in their own cynical game of divide and rule come August this year. ALSO READ: Let peace be the rallying call during party primaries Mr Wandayi is the MP for Ugunja Esther Passaris: It was unrealistic for Philip Murgor to run for the top seat because it was going to be a two-horse race. I would say it was a clever move for him to drop his bid. Why waste your money in campaigns and you know you would lose in the polls? There is no doubt that the race will be between the National Super Alliance (NASA) and Jubilee. No other presidential candidate has a chance. These are some of the reasons I also dropped my bid for Nairobi governor, which is also shaping to be between Jubilee and Opposition. I couldn&rsquo;t raise enough funds to campaign. Kenyans are also tired of elections; they do not want to invest in it anymore. So you must look for innovative ways to raise funds making it very difficult to run successful campaigns for leaders who do not have deep pockets. The business community is also disconnected; they will just pay for the big boys but ignore the others. Murgor is also not visible and for him to sell himself he would need more money than some of the front runners in the race. He would have probably required about Sh2 billion to make himself visible across the country. Without money it becomes difficult to win an election in Kenya because you need to pay for everything, including agents in every polling station. Campaigns are lost at the agent level because if you don&rsquo;t have agents in all polling stations you end up having your votes given to other candidates. ALSO READ: Munya urges court to throw out case against him Ms Passaris is an aspiring Nairobi Woman Representative