Top police commanders in Nairobi met on Wednesday to plan on how to cover political party nominations that are set to begin. Officials said they wanted to plan on how they will handle the situation for the two weeks period when the exercise will be conducted. Major political parties ODM and Jubilee will hold their nominations on April 21 in Nairobi. Informed officers said police headquarters had directed other regional commanders to hold similar meetings over the issue. &quot;Commanders in other regions had held the meetings and mapped their areas of interest. Those that had not done so had Wednesday as the deadline for easy management,&quot; said an officer who asked not to be named. Nairobi police boss Japheth Koome said they are ready to work with political parties to ensure the exercise is peaceful and credible. ALSO READ: More Jubilee aspirants oppose use of cards He said the meeting was attended by all Officers Commanding Police Division (OCPDs), Divisional Criminal Investigations Officers (DCIOs) and Administration Police commanders. The police boss said they will deploy dozens of police officers at the events as he called for cooperation from the parties to ensure the process is credible. &quot;We are ready to ensure security during the exercise and all we ask from the managers of the parties is cooperation to know what to do when and how,&quot; he said. Almost all constituencies in the city were identified as hotspots. The commanders asked for deployment of more officers to ensure the process is credible and peaceful. Major hotspots identified include Starehe, Kamkunji, Ruaraka, Mathare, Kasarani, Dagoretti South, Embakasi North, Embakasi East, Embakasi South and Roysambu. Last week, police boss Joseph Boinnet said Police have mapped various hotspots in the country and deployed accordingly ahead of the August polls. Boinnet said they have been holding regular meetings with other national security agencies for purposes of creating synergy and developing contingency plans. ALSO READ: More Jubilee aspirants oppose use of cards &quot;We are committed towards providing a conducive environment for both voters and aspirants to exercise their democratic rights before, during and after the general elections scheduled for August 8,&quot; he said. Boinnet said they will enforce the law without favour to any persons with necessary firmness and impartiality irrespective of one&#39;s political affiliation.