&nbsp; Senator Billow Kerrow accompanied by other Mandera leaders address a rally in Geneva Grounds in Mandera on 19/03/2017 to popularise the Economic Freedom Party. The Economic Freedom Party (EFP) spearheaded by some Mandera leaders is set to be launched officially in Nairobi on Saturday as political activities heighten ahead of the August 8th polls. The party, which has the blessings of the Mandera Council of Elders, will be launched at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre at the heart of the city and comes with a new party symbol and slogan. The party was adopted by the elders after&nbsp; President Uhuru Kenyatta&#39;s Jubilee Party declined to give direct nominations to the aspirants they backed in Mandera under the &quot;negotiated democracy&quot; arrangement. The clan elders and political leaders allied to them including Mandera Senator Billow Kerrow, are yet to make public the presidential candidate they will be backing in the upcoming polls. The party&#39;s official launch in Nairobi will be preceded by a National Delegates Conference (NDC) earlier in the day. ALSO READ: NASA leaders meet at Coast ahead of retreat &quot;The National Delegates Conference is only for registered party members while the launch conference is public and open to everyone willing to attend,&quot; said the party&#39;s aspirant for Mandera Deputy Governor Position Abass Maalim Hajir in a statement to media houses. Mr Hajir said that Kenyans from all parts of the country wishing to join the party will also be allowed to register at the venue of the launch and thereafter. In the 2013 elections, leaders of the county were elected on Deputy President William Ruto&#39;s now defunct United Republican Party (URP) after being endorsed by the clan elders. The EFP candidates in Mandera are expected to face off with their rivals who defied the elders call to step down and give other sub-clans a chance including incumbent Mandera Governor Capt. Ali Roba. Mr. Hajir said that among the party&#39;s top agenda is to work for faster socio- economic development of the country in line with Vision 2030 that seeks to turn Kenya into an industrialised, middle-income country. He said EFP will also strive for the success of the devolved system of government which came into being in 2013 among other goals. The launch of EFP will be televised live on all the major TV stations in the country and streamed live on multiple radio stations. ALSO READ: Rachel Shebesh accuses Jubilee aspirants of pride