President Uhuru Kenyatta has pledged to entrench peace and unity ahead of the August General Election. Saying no country could develop without peace and unity, President Kenyatta called on all Kenyans to shun tribalism and live in harmony. &quot;My main aim is to see Kenya peaceful and united because that way we will achieve greater things as a people and as a nation,&quot; said the President. He spoke yesterday when he joined the Maa community for interdenominational prayers for the country at Ngatataek in Kajiado County. The annual prayers &ndash; in their 18th year &ndash; were organised by the Inter-Ministry Union (IMU) under the chairmanship of Bishop Peter Mangura and brought together churches in the Maa community regions. President Kenyatta said the challenges facing the country would not be solved by divisive politics and tribalism, but through unity of purpose and bringing people together. &quot;We are all Kenyans and we should use our diversity to prosper the country but not to fragment it,&quot; he said. ALSO READ: We must learn from shifting political trends and forge nationhood The President commended Kajiado residents for holding peaceful party nominations, saying that enabled them to pick the leaders they wanted without interference. &quot;We support the decision of the people and thank you for maintaining peace during the exercise,&quot; he said. He also thanked the people of Kajiado for living in harmony, despite the county being largely cosmopolitan, noting that the residents had never fought because of politics. He appreciated the role played by the clergy in promoting peace in the county, saying their prayers had paid off and should be emulated by other religious leaders. The prayers were led by Bishop Mangura who also delivered the sermon. The cleric prayed for the President and for a peaceful electioneering period. &quot;I thank God that the country has witnessed peaceful primaries and we pray that the August elections will also be non-violent,&quot; Mangura said. ALSO READ: Irrational reluctance to charge post poll rapists He said the church had a duty to pray for peace and to be at the forefront in promoting harmony and national cohesion. Other speakers included Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery and Kajiado South MP Katoo ole Metito. Legislators Peris Tobiko (Kajiado East) and Joseph Manje (Kajiado North) attended the prayers. [Peterson Githaiga and PSCU]