The house in Karen where Githae Kiereini lived and where his body was found. [Edward Kiplimo, Standard] The family of business mogul Jeremiah Kiereini has been hit by another tragedy after a son was found dead in the same house where his brother met a similar fate four years ago. The decomposing body of Githae Kiereini, 43, was discovered in his two-room apartment in Karen. The state of the body was such that pathologists could not determine when he died or the probable cause of death as it had started decomposing. The body was discovered by a house help who went to his apartment located on Nandi Road on Tuesday afternoon. She became suspicious because Githae had not been picking phone calls for a while. Githae lived alone in the apartment. Pathologists who conducted a postmortem at Lee Funeral Home said the results were inconclusive and they had to take body samples for further analysis. Guards at the home said the worker, Prisca Reba, went to the house and cleaned it from 8am until around midday. It was when she got to the bedroom that she discovered Githae&rsquo;s half naked body on the bed. Githae sat his A&rsquo; levels as a boarding student at Sherborne School in Dorset, Britain, and worked for Eveready East Africa as an accounts manager and head of marketing, and later at Stanbic Bank, but he had left at the time of his demise. ALSO READ: Body of Nderitu Gachagua leaves Lee Funeral Home According to the security guards at the apartment, Githae&rsquo;s family had tried reaching him by phone but it was not until one of the workers discovered his body that they were made aware of his death. &ldquo;He lived alone in house number three and I did not see him often,&rdquo; said the guard. It was then that police and the family went to the house and took the body to Lee Funeral Home. According to a police officer at Karen Police Post, nothing seemed amiss from the initial assessment. Family and friends were Wednesday gathered at the funeral home, where a postmortem was conducted. His mother, Muringo Kiereini, a former Chief Nursing Officer of Kenya, was present.&nbsp; Githae&rsquo;s older brother Mburu died in 2010 following illness. The body will be cremated Friday. [email&#160;protected]