I am a 16-year-old high school student and I am hooked on bhang. I go to a Christian, all boys boarding school yet weed is readily available there. I do not know how to tell my parents about this and when I ask them to transfer me from the school they will hear nothing of it. I feel like such a disappointment to them but I need help. How do I talk to my parents about this? It is very commendable of you to speak out and admit you need help. This is a bold step and one that will help you in this journey of working towards stopping taking the weed. Now, for you to be able to do that, your parents will come in handy. It is true you have disappointed them but you are only human. Your sincere apologies will help the situation. You may have to have a candid talk with both of them at the same time and when you do, go straight to the point and not beat around the bush. Talking to a counsellor or mentor first, may make it easier for you to approach your parents. If you choose to do this, just dial 1192 and talk to a counsellor from NACADA at no cost. There is also need for the school to know what is going on as you may be an indicator that many other boys are using the illegal drug. Your parents will play a big part in having this issue brought up with the school administration. Once again, kudos for being brave and asking for help. Encourage your friends caught up in this vice to do the same. You are a hero already! Could you please explain to me the difference between retrenchment and redundancy and how an organisation is supposed to handle this. Can they, for example, show you the door without prior warning and only give you a month&rsquo;s salary? Is this right from a human resource perspective? Redundancy usually occurs when, through no fault of your own, the job you have been doing ceases to exist. It may occur due to a number of reasons: A downturn in production, sales, or the economy generally, introduction of new technology, business relocation, duties of your position are reallocated to other employees, the business merges with another business or is sold, an internal company restructure occurs or your employer becomes insolvent or bankrupt. Remember, it is the job that becomes redundant, not you. ALSO READ: Notorious Murang'a bhang peddler nabbed If you lose your job as a result of a redundancy, this is called a &ldquo;retrenchment&rdquo;. An alternative to retrenchment might involve, for example, you moving to a different position with the same employer. This is called &ldquo;redeployment&rdquo;. Redeployment must also align to your set skills and your boss must inform you of the same. If your job is made redundant and you are retrenched, you may be entitled to notice of termination or pay instead of notice, redundancy pay and other entitlements as per the laid down procedure in the HR manual of your company and the Labour Laws of Kenya. Even if you get paid your entitlements, you may still be able to challenge your dismissal if your redundancy is not genuine or if you were selected for redundancy due to an unlawful reason such as discrimination.