&nbsp; Industrialisation Cabinet Secretary Adan Mohamed samples some outfits at the expo on Friday. [Willis Awandu, Standard] Shoppers had a field day at the weekend as they haggled for super deals at the inaugural clothing expo geared at promoting the local textile industry. Organised by the Industry, Trade and Investment ministry, the pilot initiative that was to end on Friday had to be extended by a day due to public demand. Exhibitors at the event at Nairobi&rsquo;s Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC) offered for sale export-quality clothes to the public, with more than 20,000 people reported to have attended. The initiative was organised in partnership with textile and apparel firms under the Export Processing Zones (EPZs) programme. Cabinet Secretary Adan Mohamed said the expo, dubbed &ldquo;The Super Sale&rdquo;, was a precursor to other similar events to be held in&nbsp; Mombasa, Nakuru, Kisumu and other major urban towns. &ldquo;We are extending it for one more day to make sure our citizens have access to the high quality export products that are sold to overseas market,&rdquo; said Mr Mohamed on Friday. Shoppers were able to buy top quality items for as little as between Sh100 and Sh600, which normally go for as much as Sh6,000 at the global markets. The CS said the pilot initiative was a key lesson in allowing textile firms to take advantage of growing demand for apparel products by the growing middle class. He said the initiative would also help reduce the country&rsquo;s clothing import bill that stands at over $815 million (Sh839 billion). &ldquo;There&rsquo;s a growing class of Kenyans that desires for export-quality clothes that are far too expensive. The expo is a first of many interventions to assure this access,&rdquo; said Mr Mohamed. He said most of the EPZ firms that exhibited at the expo export to the biggest brands in the world. Hela Clothing that recently opened the first clothing production facility in the country sells to Calvin Klein, Victoria Secrets, and Tommy Hilfiger.&nbsp;