President Uhuru Kenyatta joins staff and senior managers from Kengen in launching 158mw Geothermal Project in Olkaria, Naivasha. (Photo: Antony Gitonga, Standard) President Uhuru Kenyatta has said over-reliance on hydro and thermal power is too expensive. And with the prolonged drought, which has led to a sharp drop in water levels in various dams, the President termed the situation as serious and worrying. He noted the need to invest more in geothermal energy, which he termed as cheap, clean and reliable, adding that country had a high potential. &ldquo;Through the use of hydro-power, the country is placed in the mercy of rains and when the rains fail we turn to the expensive and dirty thermal power,&rdquo; said President Kenyatta. He said despite the high potential of geothermal in the country, little had been done to harness it. He said the government was committed to changing this. ALSO READ: KenGen set to shutdown Masinga Dam Uhuru was speaking in geothermal-rich Olkaria in Naivasha during the groundbreaking of the 158mw plant that has been funded by the Japanese government at a cost of Sh41 billion. &ldquo;Today I have also launched 14 wellhead units in Olkaria, which will add an extra 75mw to the national grid as part of reducing the reliance on hydro-power,&rdquo; he said. He praised KenGen for its efforts in generating more geothermal power, noting that more players from the private sector should be allowed to invest in it. &ldquo;The country&rsquo;s power peak demand by 2030 will be 15,000mw against the installed capacity of 19,200mw and majority of this will come from geothermal,&rdquo; the President said. Energy Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter said Kenya was now ranked seventh worldwide in terms of geothermal production. The CS admitted that the low water levels in various dams had affected electricity supply, adding that currently they had stopped power production at Masinga Dam. Keter said with the move to geothermal energy, power tariffs were expected to drop in the coming months from seven cents per unit to three cents. &ldquo;In three weeks, residents of Mombasa will be enjoying geothermal power as the Suswa-Mombasa transmission line will be ready,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: Kenyans to brace for higher cost of power as KenGen plans closing Masinga Dam Japanese Ambassador to Kenya Toshitsugu Uesawa said his government had committed Sh41 billion to the geothermal project and praised the government for its commitment to the sector. Toshitsugu said since geothermal exploration started in the country in 1982, Japan had supported the production of 430mw, which accounted for 75 per cent of geothermal power in the country. &ldquo;Japanese government is committed to assisting in the exploration of cheaper and green energy and we praise the government for its efforts in seeking more cleaner power,&rdquo; he said. [email&#160;protected]