Today marks the beginning of political party primaries in line with directives from the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC). This exercise will provide the litmus test for our political maturity and how, if at all, democracy has been assimilated by parties and their followers. In the past, nominations have been a make-or-break affair and often, violence never lurked far from the surface; always rearing its head at the slightest provocation. Granted, the promulgation of the Kenya Constitution 2010 went a long way in ensuring the playing field is level, but there are still challenges to be overcome. The merger of parties that made up the Jubilee coalition to form the Jubilee Party had the undesirable effect of having individuals who, in their own right are political heavyweights, in one basket. This makes the business of nominations a tricky affair that could make or break the party. Already, ugly scenes have been witnessed that necessitated the taking of disciplinary action against those involved. But even though NASA escaped the travails of joint nominations, individual parties like the Orange Democratic Movement have not fared any better. The award of direct nominations to some candidates recently led to chaotic scenes at the party headquarters in Nairobi where an aspirant came calling with gun-wielding goons in tow. For a country that professes democracy, such ugly incidents take us a step backward for every two we make forward. While political parties and their leadership are always quick to pick on IEBC for chinks in its armour, it is important to note that charity, as the saying goes, starts at home. Peaceful and orderly party nominations will be the real indicator that our democracy has come of age. Parties must do everything in their powers to foster peace and understanding among their followers. Nominations are an event that comes once every five years. Keeping the peace and our country together are of paramount importance. ALSO READ: ODM stirs firestorm in NASA