Since its re-constitution after 2010, the Judiciary has continued to breathe life to the Constitution in ways that would have been unimaginable in the past. While decisions of some courts have disclosed obvious misinterpretations of law and in some few cases excessive judicial activism, the bulk of the Judiciary&rsquo;s decisions have been progressive and have advanced the cause of reform tremendously. Despite best intentions, the courts have at times added confusion and generated crises which become difficult to resolve since they have the last word on the meaning and implications of the law. Nothing discloses this more than the recent decision made in the case brought by Maina Kiai with others against the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) regarding the finality of the results announced at the constituency in the presidential elections. While on the face of it the decision appears to resolve the problem of possible rigging at IEBC&rsquo;s national tallying centre, it actually creates more problems in the presidential election than it seeks to cure. Before discussing the practical problems that the decision poses, a reading of the court&rsquo;s judgement leaves one with the impression that the court took a narrow positivistic interpretation of law, failing to recognise other critical provisions of the Constitution and the purpose of the legal provisions in the supreme law and the Elections Act. The court focused solely on, and gave an enhanced meaning to, the words &ldquo;elections shall be held at each constituency&rdquo; at the expense of all other provisions of the Constitution on the presidential elections. For instance, little consideration was made on the meaning and implication of the role of the commission in Article 138(2)c,&nbsp; which requires it to tally and verify the count before declaring the results of a presidential election. Since that section refers to a count of the votes at the polling station, after which tallying, verification and declaration is made by &ldquo;the commission&rdquo;, who is the Constitution referring to at this point? ALSO READ: Angry youths deface Nandi Jubilee office over poll fiasco What would be the effect of verification and would it not involve correction of errors? At a practical level, the court&rsquo;s decision will inevitably lead to unnecessary chaos in the determination of the final results of the election. Anyone who has observed the results verification process knows that invariably many results from constituencies arrive at the national tallying centre with glaring errors and sometimes deliberate inaccuracies. Sometimes, the number of votes declared far exceed the number of registered voters. The current law has been that where that occurs, the commission, in the presence of the candidates&rsquo; agents verifies the votes cast in each polling station. If any of the polling stations has exceeded the number of registered voters, that entire result is cancelled. This process disincentivises ballot stuffing, which is notorious in presidential candidates&rsquo; strongholds. Anyone who has read the Kriegler report will discover that while some fraud was detected at KICC, the bulk of the mischief occurred in the polling stations and constituencies where ballot stuffing occurred. With the court&rsquo;s decision, the incentive to ballot stuff will be enhanced since constituency returning officers decisions will be final, even where it is clear that there are obvious errors or fraud on the face of the record. By the way, while I know there can be instances of rigging at the national tallying centre, these are easier to solve. What I find extremely na&iuml;ve is the assumption that there is more transparency and integrity in constituencies, particularly those in candidates&rsquo; strongholds that operate without oversight and without the presence of other candidates agents, than the national tallying centre, where the entire nation is focused at, with countless agents milling around. That is, however, where we find ourselves. How I hope that before August 8, some solution will be found to ensure that while we are seeking to close loopholes to avoid a compromised election, we are not leaving gaping holes that will take us to the streets once again. &mdash;The writer is an advocate of the High Court of Kenya ALSO READ: Angry youths deface Nandi Jubilee office over poll fiasco