When Kenya&rsquo;s history is written, 2017 will be quite the year full of interesting twists and turns, all culminating in the election in August. One issue bound to get a lot of airplay will be issue of grades - starting with the Matiang&rsquo;i As to the Joho D-s. Most of us are fast learning that majority of elected officials are really not that smart based on the real and fake Ds floating around. It seems that we have decided that intelligence is not an important criteria when it comes to electing our leaders. It seems that intelligence is downplayed or underrated in this country because we like to place serious responsibility in the hands of daft people. Bed and date It is not only in politics where we go for daft. Even when it comes to marriage many people (especially men) would rather have empty headed bimbos than intelligent women. Recently, scientists published a report indicating that if men want to live longer healthier lives free of dementia and other old peoples&rsquo; illnesses, they are advised to marry intelligent wives. It remains unclear to me where this fear of intelligent women sprung from; must be from some folklore spun by old ladies back in the day. I have encountered many men who tell me that unintelligent women are their preferred choice in all relationship matters. ALSO READ: Police: Trader presented himself to us and said he had killed his wife My advice to them is that it is okay to bed and date women who are not smart, but when it comes to marriage one needs to be a bit more discerning and discriminating. Many men like to believe that intelligent women are hard to seduce and hard to manage. Well, that is absolute hogwash. Most women basically want the same thing from their men &mdash; men who are reasonably good in bed, men who treat them like queens, who are secure in their manhood and who pay their bills. In fact, book smart women have been known to be hopelessly na&iuml;ve in matters of love and lust and therefore might not be that hard to lure into a relationship and eventually into marriage. Contrary to what most of us like to believe, marriage is not all about love and lust. Time has proven that marriage is an institution that allows human beings to procreate and successfully raise the next generation of Homo Sapiens. Intelligent children Therefore, when it comes to choosing a wife and the mother to one&rsquo;s children, one needs to be more clinical and realistic. It is one thing to have a daft wife, but is quite a tragedy to have daft children. Siring intelligent children is considered a status symbol with all the credit naturally going to the man. Marrying a smart woman is the fastest way to produce smart children and to receive the kudos that comes with having smart kids. ALSO READ: Marriage does not guarantee equal share of property, Nairobi court rules Every man must aspire to have the perfect picture of success &ndash; the big car, the big house and very smart children who are headed to Ivy League schools. In this day and age, marrying a smart woman is critical - if in doubt ask Jay Z or George Clooney. Truth be told, academics nowadays is hard and very involving. Curricula nowadays are a maze of algorithms, algebra and syntax and that is even before we get to Kiswahili homework. We also know Kenyan men do not like to go home early and so are less likely to participate in the tedious work of children&rsquo;s homework. A smart wife is your buffer against this - an effective way of delegation and division of labour. An intelligent wife who helps you manage the children so that they can produce the perfect grades to ensure you look good is a must have in this day and age. Finally, men who bed and marry intelligent women score serious bonga points. If your wife is more educated than you are (for example, if she is PhD Material and you are playing at D- level), you are bound to become the envy of the town because it proves you have serious A game. Men no longer need to be afraid of intelligent women; they should see them as the perfect accessory to complete the picture of a successful man in the 21st century. &nbsp;[email&#160;protected] ALSO READ: Ways to be excellent in the workplace