&nbsp; Former President Mwai Kibaki with his nephew Nderitu Muriithi (right) at the Nanyuki Golf Club ,Laikipia County. He endorsed Nderitu Muriithi for the Laikipia County gubernatorial seat ,on left is his running mate John Mwaniki on April 1, 2017. [PHOTO:KIBATA KIHU/STANDARD] Retired President Mwai Kibaki was the chief guest during the launch of his nephew&#39;s manifesto over the weekend. Ndiritu Muriithi is vying for the Laikipia governor&#39;s seat. Muriithi is the son of the late Phillip Muriithi Kibaki, the elder brother of Kibaki. Over the weekend, Muriithi was launching his manifesto for his bid to become Laikipia governor, that saw Kibaki speak during organised luncheons in Nyahururu and Nanyuki as a chief guest. A jovial and energetic Kibaki addressed residents as he urged locals to vote wisely for leaders who would bring development to the county hinting that his nephew was a development oriented leader. ALSO READ: Hot Seat: Seven in race to unseat Butere MP Andrew Toboso The last time President Kibaki was involved in politics was in 2013, before he handed over power to President Uhuru Kenyatta. He has kept a relatively low profile on the political scene. Muriithi said that he had invited Kibaki to be his chief guest during the launch. &quot;This was a very special circumstance. As an aspirant, it is encouraging to seek advice and support from former President Kibaki but I do not expect him to go back into politics,&quot; Muirithi said. He insisted that the former president had attended the two meetings to offer guidance and support and not necessarily join the campaigns. &quot;He has a wealth of knowledge and it is an advantage to seek his advice,&quot; Muriithi said. However, President Kibaki&#39;s former security adviser Esau Kioni frowned upon the move to bring in the elderly statesman into politics. ALSO READ: Hot Seat: Seven in race to unseat Butere MP Andrew Toboso &quot;The former president is not going to start campaigning around the country, this was only because family is involved otherwise it will probably be a one off appearance,&quot; Kioni said. Kioni downplayed the former president&#39;s appearance in Laikipia, saying Kibaki had no political interests in the county. &quot;His home is in Nyeri, it is unlikely that we shall see him on the campaign trail again,&quot; he said.&nbsp;