I was recently sampling craft beer with a&nbsp;friend at Sirville Brewery and Lounge located at Galleria Shopping Mall. Our chat inadvertently drifted from the flavour of the Tapas we were washing down with Amboseli Bitter to matters travel. Turns out Sirville Brewery shares a name with a lodge located in Elementaita, also known as Elmenteita.&nbsp; &nbsp; A few weeks later, talk turned into action as I approached Lake Elementaita, one of the most underrated tourist destination in Kenya despite being a UNESCO Heritage and RAMSAR site. Granted, this soda lake is rather puny compared to her Rift Valley peers but what she lacks in size, she makes up for in sheer beauty. Besides, the amount of life she supports is enviable. At least 400 bird species have been recorded here. &nbsp; While it was not always like this, the lake&#39;s beauty has ensured that one half of her shoreline is prime property with private and public accommodation options jostling for space. The other half is part of the expansive Soysambu Conservancy. &nbsp; Sirville Elementaita Lodge boasts a desirable spot on a raised patch 20 metres from the lake&#39;s blue waters. You can always identify a passionate project by the attention to detail in its structure and this eco-lodge is impressive. It is built around a clubhouse hosting a lobby, meeting room, bar, restaurant, dining area and a viewing deck. At the front of the clubhouse is an ample swimming pool and gardens with a gazebo suited for barbecues. Facing the entrance, is a raised area with champagne coloured makuti-thatched rondavels--the western version of the African traditional hut. I recommend booking the top rooms that boast an uncontested view of the shimmering lake at sunset. The cost averages Sh17, 000 full board per person sharing inclusive of activities at the lodge. If travelling with family, one of the two family villas is ideal. Each of the villas has two spacious bedrooms, a living area and bathroom and can house up to eight persons. &nbsp;Each bedroom has a queen size bed and a smaller bed. Sirville gives the impression of living in a traditional African village spiced with modern amenities with carefully selected materials to give the feeling of stepping back in time yet living in the present day world. &nbsp; My visit was driven by more than sampling the accommodation. I was keen on hiking Sleeping Warrior, the most famous hill in the locality. Sirville promised to be the best base with knowledgeable guides to ensure an animated expedition. I cheated a little getting to the hill&#39;s base; I avoided the ten kilometre walk by riding in the lodge supplied quad bikes. That oddly turned out to be my highlight of the entire trip. En route Sleeping Warrior located within Lake Elementaita&#39;s National Sanctuary Park, we made a pit stop at the Kekopey&#39;s hot springs, in which the Tilapia Grahami breed. Being a Saturday, hordes of residents enjoyed baths in the popular warm springs that local Maasai claim can cure AIDS. &nbsp; I am not much of a hiker but the Sleeping Warrior is a challenge that you should make your bucket list. Apart from the feeling of accomplishment, incredible vistas await those who dare the hill christened Delamere&#39;s Nose for it&#39;s sharp incline. If hiking and quad biking is not your thing, then I bet the game drives in nearby national parks and conservancies will be a worthy thrill. Lake Elementaita National Sanctuary Park The park is a gem offering the visitor the chance to explore the wildlife and the hills. On the southern shores of the lake are two hills that are great for hiking and trekking. The Sleeping Warrior or &#39;Delamere&#39;s Nose&#39; on the south western shores of the lake is a volcanic hill with a crater suitable for hiking.&nbsp; If you don&#39;t care much for hiking and would rather watch birds, then the white pelicans and the flamingoes will definitely keep you happy. Did you know? 1. According to archeological evidence, many years agoElementaita, Nakuru and Naivasha once formed one great lake. 2. Even though Elementaita is a salty water lake, it hosts several hippo pods. 3. The area is home to three of the Big Five;the buffalo, leopard and lion. 4. During the colonial times, the land around Elementaita was&nbsp;owned by two families; the Delameres and the Egertons. Compiled by Waitugi Wanyiri, Sirville&#39;s resident naturalist and guide. &nbsp;