&nbsp; &nbsp; Zacharia Bobosi at a killer trench in Mihiakalo. The 20 metre-long trench is the result of erosion.(Photo: Chrispen Sechere/Standard) It began as a small ditch left behind by the rains 10 years ago. Today, it is a 20-foot death trap that continues haunt a small village on the outskirts of Kakamega town. Villagers say the gully, which has been growing steadily over the last decade, has so far claimed eight lives and left dozens of Makhomo villagers with serious injuries. &quot;All the rainwater from town ends up here. I have witnessed more than four people die here,&quot; says Zacharia Bobosi. ALSO READ: Another MP edged out in ODM nominations His neighbour, Miriam Mukanzi, says the deep gully, right opposite her home, is rapidly expanding towards her gate, effectively cutting her off from from the rest of the village. But what worries her most is not the fact that visitors will not be able to go through the gate once the trench swallows it, but that it will bring death to her doorstep. &quot;I have witnessed two people die inside this trench,&quot; she says. Swallowing space But even as it continues to expand, swallowing space and lives, residents still hope the national government and other agencies will show up soon to tame it. They have done their best to try and cover trench, they say, but watched it swallow their efforts every time it rains. &quot;I used over Sh170,000 to try and make a change but whatever I did was washed away by running waters,&quot; says Mr Bobosi. ALSO READ: ANC primaries take off amid claims of rigging Village elder Samuel Lubembe concedes that the number of casualties continues to swell every year and that there is need for the authorities to act. He says a number of leaders, including three Members of Parliament from the region and officials of the defunct municipal council, have visited the area over the years and pledged to have the trench filled. However, it continues to lie wide open - a death trap for many, especially children. &quot;I remember a young Maxwell who died here last year,&quot; said Bobosi. County Roads Executive Collins Matemba acknowledged the existence of the killer trench and said his office was preparing a report on what was required to manage the problem. Dr Matemba said the county government was concerned about the loss of lives. Villagers&#39; hope ALSO READ: Kakamega MCAs pass Sh13.2 billion budget during special sitting He pegged the villagers&#39; hopes to an appropriation budget of Sh50 million for roads in the wards, passed in the county assembly a few days ago, and said work on the trench would begin soon. But unless residents make way for the heavy machinery required to deal with the problem, the trench will continue to eat its way through the village. &quot;The only problem we have experienced before is resistance from the locals, who are not ready to give us some space to do our job,&quot; said Matemba. &quot;The area needs a little expansion for proper repairs to be done by our contractors who are about to get started.&quot;