Nakuru Governor Kinuthia Mbugua addresses residents of Naivasha when he launched his re-election campaign. [Antony Gitonga, Standard] Nakuru Governor Kinuthia Mbugua has lauded the plan to create a dry port in Naivasha, terming the project as timely. The governor lashed out at his Mombasa counterpart Ali Joho for opposing the project that is set to offer job opportunities to hundreds of Naivasha residents. Mr Kinuthia insisted that his government was still committed to establishing an industrial park within the geothermal-rich area of Olkaria where the dry port will be constructed. &ldquo;We fully support the move by the national government to open a dry port in Naivasha and this will surely see Naivasha and nearby towns develop,&rdquo; he said. The governor was speaking when he launched his campaigns in Naivasha where he addressed rallies in various trading centres. ALSO READ: Sh63b Standard Gauge Railway plan stopped During the launch, the governor said his administration had made gains in various sectors including water, roads and education. He said students from several primary schools had benefited from free school uniforms from his foundation and promised to do more during his second term. He said most roads in the town were rehabilitated and a few more would be upgraded to bitumen standard as soon as funds are available. He added that the Naivasha traders market was refurbished adding that 92 new markets in total were built around the county in the last four years. In Mai Mahiu, he said the local market risked being closed down by public health officers a few years ago because it was dirty, not roofed and lacked toilets as well as clean water. &ldquo;The market is now an impressive flagship after it was restored and upgraded by the Nakuru county government,&rdquo; he said. He added that the local dispensary was refurbished and fully stocked with drugs. &ldquo;I have stood with residents of Naivasha and Mai Mahiu in particular whenever they are in serious need,&rdquo; said the governor. ALSO READ: NLC&rsquo;s Swazuri accused of paying fictitious compensation During the launch, Kinuthia called for peaceful campaigns in Nakuru. Meanwhile, two aspirants seeking to unseat Kinuthia have vowed to lobby for the extension of the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) to Nakuru town. Former National Transport and Safety Authority chairman Lee Kinyanjui and former National Campaign Against Drug and Alcohol Abuse chairman John Mututho agreed that the dry port should be stationed between Naivasha and Nakuru. During a recent Nakuru County gubernatorial debate held at the Christ The King Cathedral Hall, the two accused the incumbent of failing to rally local leaders to support SGR&#39;s original route that passes through the town. Kinyanjui accused the leaders of committing a historical mistake and would be judged harshly in future if the SGR phase 2 to Kisumu does not pass through the town. He said if elected, he would lobby the national government to reconsider its decision on SGR route. Mututho also petitioned President Uhuru Kenyatta to direct engineers designing the project work to relook at the proposed route. The proposed railway will follow the escarpment to Mai Mahiu, cross road B33, pass south of Mount Longonot to Naivasha. ALSO READ: Inspiration behind Standard Gauge Railway stations The Naivasha-Kisumu route goes through Narok, Bomet and Sondu.&nbsp;