Karachuonyo MP James Rege has kept mum over his political future after it appeared that his name was not among those in the IEBC gazetted list of aspirants. With the primaries having kicked off and set to go on between now and end of April, Rege could be technically out of the race to defend his seat which has attracted 18 aspirants. Rege, who dumped the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) for Jubilee Party, told The Sunday Standard that he was under pressure from his supporters to defend his seat. Rege, who decamped last year, now says he is weighing his options.&nbsp; &lsquo;&rsquo;Some of my followers in the constituency think I should not leave the race.&nbsp;&nbsp; So I am reviewing my position,&rdquo; said the MP. He, however, could not explain why he was not listed among the Jubilee Party aspirants, but asked his rivals not to celebrate yet. Rege said he had met his campaign team and consulted with the council of elders and may run as an independent candidate. For that to happen, he would be required to present to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) signatures from at least 1,000 supporters. ALSO READ: Henry Kosgey and sons eye elective seats in polls &lsquo;&rsquo;I am set to meet a number of people and thereafter I will make a public announcement this week as to whether or not I have bowed out of the parliamentary race,&rsquo;&rsquo; he said. &lsquo;&rsquo;I am reviewing my options, including but not limited to running either as an independent candidate or coming up with my own party,&rsquo;&rsquo; Rege said. So far 18 aspirants have announced that they will battle it out in the ODM nominations on April 21. The contestants include Kenya&rsquo;s former Ambassador to Egypt Dave Arunga, former Standard Group Bureau Chief Kisumu Anderson Ojwang, Lazaro Adhu, Martin Onyango, Tindih Makochich and Seth Okute. Others are Adipo Okuome, Roy Okello, Ofafa Adede, Tom Dola, George Rachuonyo, Boaz Atanga, Evance Asiyo, Elijah Kodoh, Michael Yugi, Dan Koliech, Humphrey Obell and Steve Odidi. According to a list released by the IEBC, ODM, JP and Wiper Democratic Movement (WDM) parties have the highest number of aspirants who want to run for governor, senator, woman representative, Member of the National Assembly and Member of the County Assembly.&nbsp; ALSO READ: Henry Kosgey and sons eye elective seats in polls