&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know whether they are cooking results,&rdquo; said former chairman of the defunct Electoral Commission of Kenya (ECK) Samuel Kivuitu as the country faced a cliffhanger in the 2007 General Election. Under immense pressure at the Kenyatta International Conference Centre, as parties anxiously waited for the final results, the late Kivuitu attributed the delay in relaying results to mischief by returning officers. That seemed to confirm reports of an apparent stitch-up in the presidential vote. His utterance perhaps added fuel to the fires that were already raging across the country. The orgies of slaughter and destruction that ensued led to 1,300 deaths. Hundreds of thousand others were displaced while property worth millions was destroyed. All the fundamentals were at fault and the country paid a heavy price. In party strongholds, top-ups was the norm rather than the exception as each tried to outsmart the other. A story is told of how a Central Kenya MP went to town to celebrate his win while his agents &ldquo;sorted out the top-ups for the presidential candidates&rdquo; before the final tally was sent to Kivuitu. Wary of overdoing it and raising eyebrows about the discrepancies in the votes cast for the MP and president, the top-up was spread evenly. Now nobody knows how the declared loser became winner. But it happened. The matter ended up in court but dragged out for nearly the entire life of the last Parliament. The story of Nithi constituency is better told another day. ALSO READ: Chaotic party primaries undermine our democracy But then, such were the inadequacies of our electoral system that a quick fix was needed. Elections could be won and lost without casting a vote. The problem was chronic. In fact, retired South African Judge Johann Kriegler-led Independent Review Commission that audited that election concluded it was manifestly hard to determine who had won in a contest that pitied PNU&rsquo;s Mwai Kibaki and ODM&rsquo;s Raila Odinga. His commission called for the overhaul of the electoral management process and the electoral commission to give it independence and the capacity to properly run future elections. The wisdom of IREC was that a new commission would start, champion and sustain a commitment to electoral integrity that includes keeping a valid, updated voter register. The 2013 election would be the time to test these recommendations. Going by what we saw in 2013, it is safe to conclude that there is a long way to go before we have clean elections. In an earlier column, I raised concerns about the possibility of violence in the August elections. My fear stemmed from the fact that the elections could get mismanaged and consequently the country could again slide into anarchy. Don&rsquo;t forget that IEBC has been constituted once again in four years, but that will not cushion our democracy against the shenanigans of vote theft and rigging. ALSO READ: Chaotic party primaries undermine our democracy Welcome changes No doubt, the changes that will ensure the conduct of the elections is free and fair have been incremental. And the new developments last week cement those changes. Anything that makes rigging at whatever level hard is good for our democracy. The ruling by the three bench judges; Aggrey Muchulele, Weldon Korir and Enoch Chacha Mwita that declared the presidential elections results announced at the constituency level final makes it very difficult to manipulate the elections results. After all, the announcement will be made in the presence of all party agents. Just a few days earlier, IEBC had allowed the NASA coalition to establish their own tallying centres. There are those who think NASA is setting up a stage for a contest, perhaps in court. That is acceptable. The bigger picture is that by stepping back, the IEBC has instilled confidence and credibility in the electoral process. My fear after this landmark decisions was that government stalwarts would have ridiculed the judges. Adan Duale, Jubilee&rsquo;s defender-in-chief is uncharacteristically quiet.The silence may mean that Kenya is coming of age.Truly, nobody wants violence. And one sure way of avoiding that is through a fool-proof electoral system. One step at a time. Mr Guleid is the Deputy Governor, Isiolo County [email&#160;protected] ALSO READ: Jubilee steps up nominations planning, cites budget constraints