KWALE, KENYA: National Super Alliance NASA leaders Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetangula on Sunday warned Coast resident to be wary of Deputy President William Ruto&#39;s frequent visits to Coast and attempts to gain influence in the region. They also said Ruto&#39;s close ties with Kwale governor Salim Mvurya was suspicious and alleged that top Jubilee leaders are plotting to seize land in areas where minerals have been discovered in Coast and expropriate mineral wealth in Kwale. And the two leaders who addressed supporters in Kinango accused the Jubilee state of using brute force to intimidate Coast residents and added that the Uhuru regime has become frustrated after realising the opposition has not broken up. &quot;Any of the four NASA principals can be president. We are a team determined to liberate Kenya from Jubilee&#39;s misrule,&quot; Kalonzo said as Wetangula reiterated that&quot;liberty will come on August 8 when one of us becomes president which will be victory for all of us and the whole country.&quot; The two who addressed opposition supporters in Kinango Kwale demanded an investigation of Ruto&#39;s &quot;vast&quot; wealth and accused Mvurya of &quot;begging for handouts from [President] Uhuru Kenyatta&quot; instead of protecting Kwale&#39;s mineral wealth and using devolved funds to build roads and combat poverty. Kalonzo said that despite Jubilee&#39;s pledges in 2013, Coast has remained poor and marginalised amidst human rights abuses and extrajudicial killing of local youth. &quot;Someone has recently acquired 3,000 acres of land in Kwale after the discovery of nobium,&quot; Kalonzo said referring to an unnamed Jubilee politician whom he described as &quot;someone with an insatiable appetite for land.&quot; The former vice president described Mvurya as a traitor to his voters for leaving the opposition to join Jubilee. Kalonzo suggested that Mvurya left the opposition to seek protection for alleged mismanagement of the county government. He said the county administration cannot demonstrate prudent use of funds allocated since 2013 and suggested that is the reason Mvurya went to Jubilee. &quot;Why did Mvuya defect? Was he escaping prosecution? Be very careful with this man called Ruto. You should be very careful when he comes here to defend Mvurya,&quot; Kalonzo said and demanded that Kwale residents must benefit from titanium and other mineral wealth in the region. He accused Mvuyra of not demanding equal treatment for local residents and said firms mining titanium and other wealth in Kwale must process it locally to provide jobs for local youth. &quot;Residents of Kinango deserve roads and a decent life because they are human being and also pay tax,&quot; Kalonzo said and added that local support for groups like the Mombasa Republican Council will disappear if they are treated equally and liberated from poverty and marginalisation. Wetangula questioned Ruto&#39;s motive for frequent visits to Kwale and close ties with Mvurya. He said that a united opposition will send &quot;Uhuru Kenyatta to Gatundu and consign Ruto to his home if he is not lucky to go to jail for the many crimes he has committed.&quot; Wetangula claimed that Jubilee&#39;s policies in Coast have spurred poverty and wrecked the economy of Mombasa port. He also claimed that Jubilee has leased the port to a Dubai based firm and mortgated the Standard Gauge Railway to Chinese adding that &quot;this will not benefit the residents of Coast. &quot;Your governor has misappropriated money that could have been used to build roads and now he is busy begging Uhuru Kenyatta for handouts,&quot; Wetangula said and added that Mvury&#39;as dalliance with Jubilee has not resulted in any tangible benefits for the residents. He also accused the Jubilee regime of entrenching corruption and rule by an elite from the Kalenjin and Gikuyu tribes excluding most Kenyan professionals. In reference to Ruto, Wetangula said there should be an investigation of his wealth and claimed the DP has acquired land and hotels in Mombasa and Nairobi in recent months. &quot;He has been calling himself a hustler. He has gone around the country buying hotels and land worth billions of shillings,&quot; Wetangula said and questioned the source of Ruto&#39;s wealth. Former cabinet minister Chirau Ali Mwakwere who resigned from the national government to join the opposition in February denounced the Uhuru administration and said he and the president have never shared a political ideology or common history in politics. Mwakwere said he joined the opposition out of conviction and after realising that Jubilee was committed to marginalising Coast and seizing its wealth then blamed Mvuyra for aiding the alleged plunder. Mwakwere accused Uhuru of always fronting the interests of the status quo and establishment and added that ideologically he has been close to most opposition leaders. And the former Matuga MP declared that &quot;I did not resign the job of ambassador for nothing and do not intend to return to that government again.&quot; He said he will resign from politics if he found himself on the same side with adding that even when they were both in Jubilee &quot;I was in URP which they went ahead to dissolve without consulting me yet I was the deputy party leader of URP.&quot; Mwakwere also questioned Mvurya&#39;s knowledge of development economics and accused him of declaring false statistics to validate his record as governor. The former Matuga MP claimed Mvuyrya has claimed to educate 300 residents of Kwale in India using county funds and said this is a fictitious claim. &quot;We challenge him to publish these names and account for the Sh200 million he claims to spend on them every year,&quot; Mwakwere said.