Orange Democratic Party (ODM) members in Mombasa County held repeat party primaries in three constituencies Saturday after initial exercise aborted last week due to violence. ODM National Election Board Commissioner Edward Nyale said the repeat polls were more peaceful and orderly this time round. &ldquo;We wish to apologise to party supporters for not holding the exercise on Friday 28 as earlier announced. We have put our house in order and today (yesterday) ODM members have voted,&rsquo;&rsquo; he said. The primaries were held weeks after Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho was given a direct ticket to defend his seat. Other aspirants eyeing various seats under the party&rsquo;s ticket had to square it out with their rivals. Nyale said the party register was used to allow legitimate ODM members vote but the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission voter register was also used to verify other things. Voting took place in Jomvu where incumbent legislator Badi Twalib was battling it out with Kenya National Union of Teacher (KNUT) National Executive member Dan Aloo. Aloo expressed confidence of a victory in the repeat poll. &lsquo;&rsquo;I did my home work well. I am an ODM life member. So my allegiance to the party is solid while my opponent joined the ODM just the other day,&rsquo;&rsquo; he said. Voters at Mikindani Primary School were disappointed because of the long queues. ALSO READ: Jamleck claims rigging but will not appeal &ldquo;There ought to have been adequate election clerks because the number of people coming to vote is huge,&rsquo;&rsquo; Reuben Odhiambo Obama, a local said. In Changamwe, area MP Omar Mwinyi who was hauled before a court of law last week for election related offences was battling it out with soccer administrator Juma Goshi. Polls were also conducted to decide who will be the party&rsquo;s flag bearer for the Mombasa Women Representative and Senator respectively. In Kisauni constituency, Junda ward, voters cast their votes to decide who will fly the party&rsquo;s ticket in the ward come August 8. The incumbent is Mr Paul Onje. Security was tight in most polling stations with regular police and the dreaded General Service Unit taking charge.