Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) aspirants in Nyanza have asked their counterparts in the National Super Alliance (NASA) to keep off the flagbearer debate. They said the coalition was still within election timelines, and that there was no hurry in naming the flagbearer. Through their ODM Nyanza Aspirants&rsquo; Caucus, they criticized their colleagues from other parts of the country, who have been pushing the NASA principals to name the presidential candidate, saying there should be no cause for alarm as the process was being handled by able individuals. Speaking to the press in Kisumu on Wednesday, the team said NASA was a conglomeration of political parties of like minds and should not be confrontational on its issues. They said the continued &lsquo;indecent&rsquo; calls by a section of party members to pull out of the coalition were only working towards disintegrating the opposition team. Led by caucus Chairman Jared Okelo, they said all the four principals had equal chances of beating Jubilee candidate, hence they only need to remain united. ALSO READ: New bid to block Governor Joho via court &ldquo;On their (principals&rsquo;) own volition, they did set up a 12-member committee, drawn from all the affiliate parties, to discern the best-case scenario and perfect combination with surest potential to send Jubilee administration home. That role has not been passed over to any other entity, grouping or individual,&rdquo; said Okelo. Okelo blamed the disconnect on Jubilee machinery whom he said have been keen to see the Opposition disintegrate before the general election. &ldquo;We therefore plead for patience, calm, restraint and mutual respect particularly while expressing opinions concerning the delicate subject of NASA torch bearer. We must desist from and refuse the allure of Jubilee,&rdquo; said Okelo. He added: &ldquo;We respect the tacit contribution by all the parties under the banner of NASA and the equality on the partnership. However, it is not lost on us that only smaller rivers join the big ones.&rdquo;