Kilifi County Woman Representative Aisha Jumwa (left) floored Malindi MP Willy Mtengo during tension-packed nominations for the constituency at the weekend. In Mombasa County, Woman Rep Mishi Mboko defeated challenger Hassan Ali Domoko and a third contestant for the Likoni parliamentary ticket. Jumwa got 8,436 votes against Mtengo&rsquo;s 3,758 in the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) primaries. The two have engaged in an ill-tempered campaign for months. Although both are strong ODM supporters, Jumwa took on Mtengo despite campaigning for him in last year&rsquo;s by-election. She accused Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi of siding with Mtengo in the primaries, claims the governor denied. If her victory is sustained she stands a chance of becoming the first female MP in Kilifi County if she defeats the Jubilee candidate in the August polls. Samuel Ochieng, the party&rsquo;s returning officer, announced Jumwa&rsquo;s victory at Barani Secondary School at around 4am yesterday. ALSO READ: Raila mocks Jubilee over primaries as Uhuru apologises to supporters Song and dance Jumwa and her supporters, who were at the tallying centre when the declaration was made, broke into song and dance. However, Mtengo, who addressed journalists at his constituency office later yesterday, disputed the election outcome, terming the polls shambolic. &quot;I categorically reject the election results as announced. They are shambolic and we urge the ODM nominations board to nullify the results and set fresh dates so that we can battle it out again,&rsquo;&rsquo; he said. He said many voters did not cast their ballot due to the late opening of many polling stations. He cited Mere and Kijiwe Tanga polling stations, where there was delay in the opening of the centres. However, by 4pm the centres were closed. He vowed to do everything possible to sure that Jumwa was defeated. &ldquo;I will use my resources to ensure that Jumwa is not the MP of Malindi. I will mobilise my supporters to vote against her even if it means voting for a Jubilee candidate.&rsquo;&rsquo; ALSO READ: Mombasa MP detained as ODM holds chaotic primaries in Coast