ODM leader Raila Odinga has said the National Super Alliance (NASA) will announce its own results in the August polls as part of efforts to prevent rigging. &quot;As IEBC will be announcing their results, media houses will be relaying their results as well. We as NASA will also announce our results from our tallying centre,&quot; said Raila. Speaking at a rally in Kibera, he said agents would scan the result documents and relay them in real time once they are announced at every polling station by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission officials. He said the alliance would only recognise the results announced at polling stations. His deputy, Hassan Joho, once again stirred up the political storm over the NASA presidential candidate, asserting that Raila must be the coalition&#39;s flag-bear if the joint Opposition hopes to beat President Uhuru Kenyatta in the August 8 General Election. The Mombasa governor said politics is about numbers and that it is only Raila who can consolidate support across the country compared with his co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), and Ford Kenya&#39;s Moses Wetang&#39;ula. ALSO READ: NASA accuses Jubilee of neglecting Wajir &quot;We must be honest with ourselves. It is Raila who has the numbers. We will only beat President Uhuru if we have Raila as our flag-bearer. With a lot of respect and humility, this country wants someone who has the numbers to send home the Jubilee government and that person is Raila Odinga,&quot; said Joho. This comes only days after National Assembly Minority Leader Francis Nyenze, a key ally of Kalonzo, said the former vice-president must be the flag-bearer or his group would leave NASA. Raila said NASA has devised a game plan to ensure a 100 per cent voter turnout in the elections. He said every polling station would be adopted by 50 youths in their respective areas. He explained that the youths would have the voter register of their respective stations for mobilisation purposes on voting day. He said the team would tick the names of people immediately they cast their vote and would go to homes to urge people to go and vote. &nbsp; &nbsp; ALSO READ: NASA accuses Jubilee of neglecting Wajir