Machakos Governor Dr Alfred Mutua has trashed the new opposition line up for general election saying alliances of such nature have nothing to offer Kenyans. Mutua said it has become a tradition by politicians to combine forces on tribal grounds and front their own selfish needs in the name of representing Kenyans. His remarks come as the National Super Alliance(NASA) leaders are in high gear traversing across the country to urge Kenyans to rally behind the team led by Opposition leader Raila Odinga as the Presidential Candidate and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka as his deputy. A day after unveiling the line up that has roped in Amani National Congress Musalia Mudavadi, Chama Cha Mashinani Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto and Ford Kenya leader Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula, Kalonzo was in his stronghold- Kangundo, Machakos County to drum up support for NASA. But speaking at his party&#39;s headquarters, Mutua said for long people from Ukambani have been led astray due to unsuitable choice of leaders: &quot;We are tired of the kind of leadership in our region.&quot; He said he will be arranging a leadership conference that will draw leaders from Kitui, Mombasa, Machakos, Makueni among other counties to chart the way forward for the community. ALSO READ: Mudavadi says he sacrificed presidency for the sake of Kenya Mutua said it is sad that some of the politicians drumming for support to remain in leadership have been in positions of power for long with nothing to show. &quot;Their people are still wallowing in poverty with no essential needs. This is a typical case of player who fails to perform in a small league and still believes can perform in a bigger one,&quot; said Mutua. The Maendeleo Chap Chap leader said it is high time Kenyans come out to vote leaders on the sole basis of their scorecards. &quot;We want line-ups that take into account development. Not just alliances behind tribal cocoons. At the end of the day it is not about me as a leader but Kenyans&#39; needs,&quot; said Mutua. Mutua said the concluding party primaries that have been marred with irregularities have exhibited the wanting crop of leaders that the country does not deserve. &quot;The kind of games seen in party primaries shows the greed in leadership, we have few being given certificates yet they had not been rightfully chosen by the people,&quot; said Mutua. He further distanced himself from claims of sabotage in the Wiper Party primaries for governor seat of Machakos County. ALSO READ: Graft fears as thrashed governors still in office &quot;We do not interfere with parties, people are just trying to find excuses in their failures,&quot; Mutua said.