US-based leading ink and toner retailer and franchisor Cartridge World has opened a shop in Kenya adding to four in East Africa after opening one in Tanzania in 2015. The store, which will be based at Heights Building in Westlands, Nairobi will offer customers a tremendous cost-saving alternative to printing, and over full-priced Original Equipment Manufacturer(OEM) cartridges. The firm has more than 1,200 franchised retail locations in over 50 countries and 150 stores in 130 African countries and will be opening the Uganda store on Thursday. Cartridge World was recently ranked No. 78 on Franchise Directs&#39; list of the Top 100 Global Franchises. &quot;Cartridge World is looking to expand its footprint and global brand awareness to many emerging regions such as Africa and today we are proudly launching our operations in Kenya and soon in Uganda. We are your only brand that will provide printing solutions across East Africa under same brand and quality,&quot; said Harry Stoubous, Global Chief Development Officer. &quot;We look at Africa as emerging market and now we have over 462 registered B2B customers and over 600 B2C customers, we can confidently say we are providing a quality product at the right price and we expect good business here in Kenya too,&quot; added Stoubous. Cartridge World will now provide high quality printing consumables and all in one printing solutions in the $80 billion(Sh8trillion) printer cartridge industry. Rajesh Pandya, Regional Managing Director said the store will stock also world class quality printers from other manufactures. &quot;We will sell our products at our store in Westlands and from our sales agents only and not dealership selling to avoid exposing our customers to counterfeits that are many in the market,&quot; said Pandya, who said they will later open more stores in the city centre and big towns. The cartridges will come with company&#39;s and KEBS sticker to ensure customers get quality products. Shops will also offer expert advice for all your printing needs. &quot;We see Kenya and Uganda as very important markets in our expansion plans, and our expectations are very high from these enormous markets, we are now looking forward to working with the Kenya and Uganda&#39;s business community, giving every business and individual an opportunity to save costs without compromising on quality said Ashish Nagewadia, East Africa Business Development Manager.