When you see an empty wine bottle, very rarely is your first thought, &lsquo;What wonderful art I could make with that&rsquo;. Well, unless you&rsquo;re David Chege. What many people consider useless and a not-so-welcome reminder of better times has created a business opportunity for David, 30. &ldquo;The idea started when I saw empty wine bottles lying around my estate. I collected them for fun because I found their colours and shapes beautiful, and then I started decorating them,&rdquo; he says. His friends and family liked what they saw, and David saw the opportunity to turn his hobby into a money-making venture. He started collecting bottles from his friends&rsquo; houses and selling them back after giving them new life. He started his business, House of David, with Sh5,000. He didn&rsquo;t need much since he got most of the raw materials for free. &ldquo;We now recycle anything that can create beauty for interior decor, including pallets, dead and dry wood, fallen leaves, dry flowers, twigs and seeds &mdash; basically anything that would have no value to the non-artist&rsquo;s eye.&rdquo; He uses these bits and pieces to add interesting elements to wall hangings or elevate his wine bottles. He charges between Sh1,000 for individual pieces and Sh4,000 for gift sets. &ldquo;I make between Sh30,000 and Sh60,000 in a month from selling the pieces online,&rdquo; says David. He markets his products on social media because his business greatly relies on pictures, but he also has an outlet in Kahawa West, off Nairobi&rsquo;s Thika Road. He also displays his products in his home in a bid to show their impact on interior decor. &ldquo;The main challenge I face is the lack of a proper market. People are yet to appreciate our art and we do not have trade avenues to help us market our products,&rdquo; David says. The company is barely a year old, but he is hopeful it will continue to grow. &ldquo;My dream and desire is to grow House of David into a unique design-hub sort of enterprise that mentors and hosts creative minds who have the same intention of conserving our environment,&rdquo; he says.&nbsp;