ODM will repeat party nominations in Teso North and South constituencies for the governor&#39;s seat. The results of the vote between the incumbent Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong and Funyula MP Paul Otuoma were cancelled following massive irregularities in the April 13 primaries. Yesterday, the party&#39;s National Elections Board (NEB) said although they had cancelled the earlier results, they would conduct a repeat in only two constituencies where results were in contention. NEB Chairperson Judith Pareno said the board took the decision because the exercise would be costly if done throughout the county. &quot;The results for the Busia gubernatorial nominations were also nullified after cases of massive irregularities were reported. The board ordered a repeat of the nominations for the Busia governor&#39;s position on Tuesday April 25. But this will be done in Teso North and Teso South constituencies. These are the areas that had problems,&quot; said Ms Pareno. However, Dr Otuoma has ruled out participating in another exercise whose results he claims were predetermined. ALSO READ: Wiper to field candidates against ODM for all Coast seats The MP said he would not fall for tricks by Orange House to conduct another nomination, adding that the date set for the primaries was suspect. The Funyula lawmaker, while on a meet-the-people tour of Changara, Nambale, Butula, Omena Beach, Lunyofu and Port Victoria told his supporters he would not be subjected to another primary. &quot;The party is scheming to lock me out of the race. We won the nomination in daylight and what we want is our certificate,&quot; said Otuoma. Asked whether the board had received Otuoma&#39;s protest letter, Pareno said the lawmaker had not written to them would act and respond adequately. Despite the challenges facing the ODM nominations, Pareno exuded confidence, saying in Kakamega, Samburu, Narok and Turkana counties, the turnout averaged about 42 per cent of registered voters. &quot;The voting process was above board and credible. Where irregularities were noted in isolated cases, below the 10 per cent mark, the ODM election board took action to remedy the challenges,&quot; she said. So far, the nominations have been marred by technical hitches that include late kick-off, insufficient ballot papers because of high turnout and mischief by aspirants. ALSO READ: Wiper to field candidates against ODM for all Coast seats The board said there was a problem in Khwisero constituency in Kakamega County and Butali/Chegulo ward in Malava Constituency.