A Nairobi secondary school teacher who was reported missing more than 10 days ago has yet to be traced. On Friday March 31, 2017, 43-year-old Boss Surur Nassor, a teacher at Moi Forces Academy (MFA), was reported missing after his car was found abandoned along Murang&rsquo;a Road. According to his family and colleagues, Nassor, who teaches Arabic, left MFA around 12.30pm on the fateful day headed for Dr Ribeiro Parklands Boys Secondary School, about four kilometres away. He had an appointment with the Parkland&rsquo;s school principal to discuss the possibility of having him stand in for an Islamic Religious Education teacher who had taken maternity leave. Wife&rsquo;s alarm &ldquo;He left the school at around half past noon but never arrived,&rdquo; MFA principal Norman Kiogora said. Kiogora says he spoke with his Parklands counterpart who confirmed that Nassor never showed up. His phone was off. The principal called his colleague after Nassor&rsquo;s wife, Fatuma Omar, raised the alarm when her husband failed to return. &ldquo;He left at around 11.30am and told me that he had a brief meeting with the principal of Parklands and would return for lunch. However by 3pm he hadn&rsquo;t shown up and I decided to call his number but it was off,&rdquo; Fatuma said. ALSO READ: Governor Ojaamong clashes with MPs over county funds She went&nbsp; to the staff room to ask the other teachers if they had seen him. &ldquo;My husband had never switched off his phone before.&rdquo; By 6pm Nassor was still not at home, prompting his wife to go to Pangani Police Station with the intention of reporting him missing. When she arrived at Pangani, she saw her husband&rsquo;s car parked at the station, raising her hopes that he might be there. However, the police&nbsp; officer on duty told her that the car had been found abandoned in front of Guru Nanak Hospital along Murang&rsquo;a Road. &ldquo;The officers told me that they had received communication about an abandoned car along Murang&rsquo;a Road and were directed to tow it to the station. I suspected that my husband could have fallen ill and was probably rushed to the hospital by good Samaritans or the police since he had had a mild stroke,&rdquo; she says. A second car The first port of call was Guru Nanak Hospital, then Radiant and Juja Road hospitals, but this did not yield any results. On Saturday she returned to Pangani where she formally reported Nassor to be a missing person and got an OB number. She and other teachers requested to be shown where the car was recovered. Eyewitnesses told them that a black Toyota car had hit her husband&rsquo;s car from behind. When he stopped to inspect the impact of the crash, two men alighted from the offending car, beat him up, and handcuffed him. They then bundled him into their vehicle and drove off with his bag that contained personal documents. His laptop and driving licence were left in his car. ALSO READ: He went missing on Christmas eve &ldquo;We went back to the station and the OCS told us that officers were investigating it as a possible abduction. I have visited several police stations, including the Anti-Terrorist Police Unit, hospitals, and even City Mortuary, but nothing is forthcoming. I have now resigned myself to fate and pray to God that my husband returns home safely.&rdquo;