&nbsp; The President is expected to preside over the national drama gala festival in honour of&nbsp; this year&#39;s winners at Kisumu State lodge, State House Spokesman Manoah Esipisu confirmed. Sources at State House could however not confirm if the President would address residents in the town. Details of the visit have been largely kept secret. State House Spokesman Manoah Esipisu will today hold a press briefing from State House Kisumu to explain more on Uhuru&#39;s visit. &nbsp;Besides receiving and honouring winners in the Drama festival, Uhuru will be seeking to assure Nyanza residents of his commitment in developing the region. ALSO READ: MP Naomi Shaban ditches Jubilee party over rigging plot Uhuru&#39;s visit comes at a time the country is polarised because of the forthcoming August 8 polls, with members of&nbsp;the National Super Alliance, (NASA) campaigning to send him home. Kisumu is the home turf of his main challenger in the 2013 polls, Raila Odinga, who is making every effort to edge him out. The State House orderlies confirmed the President&#39;s Kisumu visit will involve the local leaders but downplayed its significance, saying: &quot;It could just be a tea or lunch session for old political friends in town.&quot; President Uhuru still has political friends in the town who he made in his heyday in the former national ruling party, Kanu, on whose ticket he ran for the presidency in 2013 but lost to Kibaki, the flag bearer of a united Opposition back then. Uhuru is seeking another term in office and like in the past, he faces another strong onslaught from NASA, although the latter is yet to settle on a joint candidate. Since the formation and reconstitution of the Jubilee secretariat headed by former Cabinet Minister Raphael Tuju, the party has kept off active public political rallies in the lakeside town. Many will be waiting to see if Uhuru will meet residents in the town. ALSO READ: Jubilee Party aspirants in Nyeri cry foul over security Sources could not confirm how long the President would be at the lakeside State lodge. &nbsp;