Migori Governor Okoth Obado has faulted the decision by the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party to fine him Sh2 million over political violence allegedly involving his supporters two weeks ago. Mr Obado, who accused his rivals of playing dirty politics, maintained he had nothing to do with the chaos in Migori town where a body guard to Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho was shot in the foot and scores injured. He said he will on Monday appeal against the ruling by ODM Disciplinary Committee. The chaos began when supporters of Obado, MP Junnet Mohammed and gubernatorial aspirant Ochillo Ayacko clashed. The leaders were then summoned by the party organ. Addressing journalists at a Nairobi hotel on Thursday night after the committee announced the decision to fine him alongside Nominated Senator Elizabeth Ongoro, Mr Obado said he would lodge an appeal on Monday. &ldquo;I will not decamp from ODM. I will fight for my space from within. My detractors should know I enjoy the support of the people and nothing will make be bow out,&rdquo; an enraged Obado said. He said the decision to fine him was not well thought out, and claimed it was part of a cleverly executed scheme by rivals &ldquo;to fix me because they fear competition.&rdquo; ALSO READ: Kanu aspirants ask voters to reject Jubilee A statement by ODM on Thursday said Obado was required to pay Sh2 million, while Ongoro was fined Sh1 million and barred from seeking the Ruaraka parliamentary seat on an Orange ticket. Ongoro, who is accused of causing chaos at Orange House last week, has since defected to Musalia Mudavadi&rsquo;s ANC. Mr Obado also exuded confidence that he would surmount all the political hurdles before him. &ldquo;They have even gone to dig out records at the Political Parties Tribunal claiming I should be barred from seeking the ODM ticket, claiming I am not a bona fide party member. This is not true because I renounced by membership in PDP,&rdquo; he said. The governor appealed to his supporters to be patient, saying he would fight every technicality being used by his rivals to knock him out of ODM. &ldquo;I am winning this seat,&rdquo; a confident Obado told journalists.