Titanic duels are lined up for today, with the political careers of big names at risk as voters in Jubilee&#39;s strongholds make their choice. The party&#39;s primaries will see political heavyweights in President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy, William Ruto&#39;s, backyards lock horns for the highly sought ticket. Though the nominations will involve aspirants for all positions, it is that of governor that is likely to provide mouth-watering contests, with competitors going full-throttle to claim the ticket. In Nairobi, Senator Mike Sonko will battle it out with Peter Kenneth in what promises to be a close contest. Although the party leader, President Kenyatta, had sought to have them reach an agreement, they failed to strike a deal. They will rely on the party members to pick their favourite candidate to face off with NASA&#39;s Evans Kidero in the August 8 General Election. ALSO READ: Humiliating defeat for Nandi Governor Cleophas Lagat in Jubilee nominations Mr Sonko has partnered with senatorial aspirant Johnson Sakaja and Karen Nyamu, who is eyeing the woman representative position and will be counting on the consolidated votes of their supporters to bag the ticket. On the other hand, Mr Kenneth has aligned himself with most of the sitting city MPs to form a formidable bloc of votes that he hopes will propel him to the ballot. A similar contest is expected in Murang&#39;a, where the incumbent, Governor Mwangi wa Iria, is facing his most fierce political critic, Kigumo MP Jamleck Kamau. Mr wa Iria is counting on his economic empowerment of the residents, especially gains made by dairy farmers, while Mr Kamau has been hitting at the governor over alleged misuse of funds, grounds he has constantly argued should be employed to remove his competitor from office. In Nakuru, the battle for the ticket will see incumbent Kinuthia Mbugua fight it out with former MP Lee Kinyanjui and former Nacada chairman John Mututho. A former head of the Public Service and secretary to the Cabinet, Francis Kimemia, will kick-start his political career with a contest that will see him go head to head with the incumbent, Nyandarua Governor Daniel Waithaka Mwangi. In Laikipia, Governor Joshua Irungu is in a crowded contest that includes former MP Nderitu Muriithi and former permanent secretary Thuita Mwangi, and James Mathenge. ALSO READ: Governor Ndathi refuses to concede defeat in Kirinyaga Jubilee nominations Samuel Wamathai, who inherited the Nyeri seat from Nderitu Gachagua, who dies earlier this year, will seek to win the ticket, which is also being contested by former minister and current Senator Mutahi Kagwe and Wahome Gakuru, who came second after Gachagua in 2013.