The National Super Alliance (NASA) unveils the much-awaited joint opposition presidential candidate Thursday. The coalition says it is expecting thousands of their supporters at the historic Uhuru Park in Nairobi, in an event reminiscent of 2002 when the opposition leaders united to kick out Kanu from power. Officials from the five parties forming&nbsp;NASA&nbsp;were at the venue&nbsp;Wednesday to inspect preparations as principals were holed up in Karen to fine-tune the negotiated deal. Major event Several dignitaries and representatives from African countries are among guests who have been invited for the event, which&nbsp;NASA&nbsp;has billed as a &lsquo;major event&rsquo;. &ldquo;We have invited representatives of friendly political parties from the region and also international organisations,&rdquo; Ford Kenya&rsquo;s Eseli Simuyu told journalists last evening. ALSO READ: Mandago heads to victory against Buzeki in governor race The Standard has also seen a power structure showing that ODM leader Raila Odinga, who will be presented to Kenyans today as the presidential candidate, will not enjoy absolute power should he be elected on August 8. A structure of the coalition agreement indicates that the&nbsp;NASA&nbsp;president will share power with his co-principals, including the appointment of Cabinet secretaries through consultations and concurrence. The&nbsp;NASA&nbsp;leader will get a few slots in the Cabinet and the position of Premier Cabinet Secretary (PCS), who will be a quasi Prime Minister, will be created. The Opposition leaders say this position does not require a constitutional amendment. &ldquo;Upon formation of government, the president shall delegate the running of government to the Premier Cabinet Secretary (PCS) in accordance and as provided for in Article 131 (1) (b) of the Constitution which requires the president to exercise executive authority with the assistance of the Deputy President and cabinet secretaries,&rdquo; the&nbsp;NASA&nbsp;document states. Ethnic diversity All executive positions will be shared, with the President getting less portfolio appointments in conformity to Article 130 of the Constitution, which requires composition of the national executive to reflect regional and ethnic diversity of the people of Kenya. Any breach of the consultative and concurrency of co-partner attracts a penalty of dissolution of the coalition, the document reads in part. ALSO READ: Central scores big in peace NASA&nbsp;says its power-sharing isn&rsquo;t illegal, selfish or about power-hungry designs as it is provided for by the law including the Political Parties Act on sharing of power by a coalition. The&nbsp;NASA&nbsp;working document argues that the Third Schedule requires coalition to have criteria or formula for sharing positions in the coalition structure, roles and responsibilities within the coalition. In the past,&nbsp;NASA&nbsp;has been dismissed by their rivals for planning to create positions that are non-existent in the law. &ldquo;What is different is that unlike Jubilee,&nbsp;NASA&nbsp;power sharing isn&rsquo;t between two people but abides by Article 130 of the Constitution which demands that composition of the national Executive reflects regional and ethnic diversity of the people of Kenya.&rdquo; In the&nbsp;NASA&nbsp;structure, there is the President (Raila), Deputy President (Kalonzo Musyoka), PCS (Musalia Mudavadi) and two Deputy PCS; one for Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula and another presumably for Isaac Ruto&rsquo;s nominee or himself should he be swept by the Jubilee wave as Bomet Govenor. In the deal, the powerful docket of Internal Security and Administration of National Government will be under the office of the PCS. One of the deputy PCS will have the dockets of Finance, Devolution and Planning under him with the other deputy PCS having Public Service and Foreign Affairs under him. ALSO READ: Big names fall in chaotic polls Take over power &ldquo;We are going to make a major announcement as we prepare to take over power in August,&rdquo; Amani National Congress official Sakwa Bunyasi said. Last week, while receiving Ruto as the fifth principal, the&nbsp;NASA&nbsp;chiefs said they would today declare to the country what they will offer as an alternative to the ruling Jubilee coalition. The team had agreed on the deal but failed to unveil it at the Bomas of Kenya, postponing it to today so as to get a bigger crowd.