President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto Thursday told the Opposition to prepare for another defeat in the August polls. The duo said the National Super Alliance (NASA) line-up, a repeat of the one in 2013, will be a walkover for Jubilee. Speaking in Kiambu County Thursday, Uhuru and Ruto said this time they would defeat the Opposition with over 70 per cent. They hit out at Opposition leaders Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi, Moses Wetang&#39;ula and Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto, accusing them of not telling Kenyans their agenda for the country. Uhuru said the leaders were embroiled in a tussle over how to share power instead of stating how they would move the country forward. &quot;Kenyans have no interest in how you will share power. What they want is development,&quot; Uhuru said at a stopover in Githurai. ALSO READ: Intrigues that led to NASA naming Raila flag-bearer &quot;Kenyans want to know how a government will deliver services to the over 40 million people, not what a handful of people will get when they form government,&quot; he added. Uhuru also discredited claims that the Jubilee government was made up of two communities. Mr Ruto expressed confidence they would beat NASA again, saying the ruling party had made great inroads in the Opposition areas since the last polls. &quot;We will show them dust. This time it will not be 50 per cent plus one but 70 per cent plus one,&quot; said Ruto. &quot;Si Raila ni yule yule? Si Kalonzo ni yule yule? Si walikua ule upande mwingine tukawashinda? (Are these not the same Raila and Kalonzo who were on the other side last time, and did we not beat them?)&quot; Ruto said in Ruiru. The two leaders said Jubilee had been emboldened by the defections of members of Opposition parties to the ruling coalition. The DP added that Jubilee&#39;s development agenda had won it support and popularity across the country. ALSO READ: Intrigues that led to NASA naming Raila flag-bearer Opposition tickets &quot;We have more leaders from Coast and Western this time,&quot; said Ruto referring to some of the leaders who were elected on Opposition tickets but who have since jumped ship. They included Governor Salim Mvurya (Kwale) and Kenneth Lusaka (Bungoma), and MPs Gideon Mung&#39;aro (Kilifi North), Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), Isaac Mwaura (nominated) and Taita Taveta Woman Rep Joyce Lay. Kiambu governor nominee Ferdinand Waititu, National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale, Senator Dan Maanzo and former Commission for Implementation of the Constitution chairman Charles Nyachae were also present.&nbsp; Meanwhile, Uhuru challenged Mr Waititu to fulfil promises he made if he wins in the August elections. He also urged locals to elect Waititu as well as all Jubilee candidates for various seats. The President said they would work with all leaders the residents elected if they won the next elections. ALSO READ: Former MPs get political lifeline after primaries