A sizeable portion of the country&rsquo;s grain harvest could be destroyed if authorities do not move quickly to contain the destruction wreaked by armyworms in parts of Western Kenya. The latest reports indicate that up to 10 per cent of farms under maize have been invaded by armyworms in Trans Nzoia County, but the pests are spreading further afield with some farms in Maseno also facing an imminent attack from the Fall armyworm. In the coast region, a different strain of the pest &mdash; the African armyworm&mdash; has invaded farms in Kwale and Taita Taveta counties. Up till now, the containment has been minimal and ineffective &mdash; in Trans Nzoia, the County Government has released Sh50 million in a fumigation campaign, but it admits that this is hardly enough to contain the invasion. This is not the time to dither about how and when to intervene. The National Government must move quickly and go beyond providing policy direction by supporting county governments that now have the mandate to manage agricultural production under devolved governance. In the immediate response, additional funding should be provided to ensure that farmers have pesticides at their disposal to rid their farms of these destructive worms. Already farmers have complained that they cannot afford these pesticides. They say that it costs as much as Sh22,000 to spray 10 acres of farmland using the Belt Concentration, a pesticide recommended to fight of the worm. ALSO READ: Farming gamble that fuels food scarcity The Sh50 million provided by Trans Nzoia county Government is only enough to spray 12,000 hectares of the 104,000 hectares under maize cultivation. We must find a way out and save what remains of the harvest. The objective should be to stop the spread of the invasion to other areas because if this happens the cost of containment will rise exponentially. Clearly, the consequence of further destruction of crops is grave. Therefore, all energies should be directed at stopping the spread of these pests.