A new meningitis vaccine has been introduced in Kenya. The vaccine launch follows the June 2015, announcement where Pfizer said that it is going to enter into an agreement to acquire GSK&rsquo;s vaccines - Nimenrix and Mencevax and finalized the agreement on the 1st of October of that year. According to the Pfizer Corporate Affairs Director, Margaret Olele, the Menengitis vaccine is important for Kenya at this time as it has a vulnerable population segment. &ldquo;17 countries in Africa including Kenya lay on the Meningitis Belt that has a very high prevalence rate. Through travelling and mass gathering, the disease spreads very rapidly and with significant impact on lives,&rdquo; she said during the official launch of Nimenrix in Nairobi. Pfizer, she added, remains committed to working with partners in ameliorating these challenges and ultimately help save the lives of people living in our region through vaccines. Nimenrix (meningococcal serogroups A, C, W-135 and Y conjugate vaccine) is a single dose meningococcal ACWY-TT (tetanus toxoid) conjugated vaccine designed to protect against Neisseria meningitidis, an uncommon but highly contagious disease that can lead to disability and death. It is indicated for all age groups above one year of age.&nbsp; It is currently registered and approved for sale in 61 countries across the European Economic Area (EEA 30), Canada, Australia and Emerging Markets, with registrations under review in another 18 countries across Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe and the Middle East. The acquisition has made Pfizer&rsquo;s promising portfolio even stronger.&nbsp; Pfizer Vaccines in the region has been leading the global efforts for mass gathering education and awareness programs for pneumococcal vaccines since 2014. Now, with this addition of the new hajj mandatory vaccines in some countries, Pfizer in the region is positioned as a stronger partner for Hajj vaccinations.&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Pfizer will continue to deliver on its growth commitments to colleagues and customers, protecting lives with innovative vaccines to fight serious diseases worldwide.&nbsp; The firm is leveraging leading technology in vaccine design and conjugation in an effort to provide preventative solutions to these complex, difficult-to-treat bacterial pathogens. Pfizer Inc.: Working together for a healthier world&reg; At Pfizer, we apply science and our global resources to bring therapies to people that extend and significantly improve their lives. We strive to set the standard for quality, safety and value in the discovery, development and manufacture of health care products. Our global portfolio includes medicines and vaccines as well as many of the world&#39;s best-known consumer health care products. Every day, Pfizer colleagues work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness, prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases of our time. Consistent with our responsibility as one of the world&#39;s premier innovative biopharmaceutical companies, we collaborate with health care providers, governments and local communities to support and expand access to reliable, affordable health care around the world. For more than 150 years, Pfizer has worked to make a difference for all who rely on us.