NAIROBI, KENYA: Sophos has introduced its next-generation anti-ransomware CryptoGuard technology that is available with its server protection products. This optimisation enables its server protection products to have signature-less detection capabilities that combat ransomware - similar to Sophos Intercept X for endpoints launched in September 2016. By adding CryptoGuard to server security, Sophos is closing a critical gap by preventing ransomware attacks that could come in through rogue, guest or remote access users or other weaknesses in a company&rsquo;s network. For example, if a company allows bring-your-own-laptops on the network, remote access for employees or is victimised by an insider cyber threat, servers become highly susceptible to ransomware. Additionally, network shares on servers are high-value targets as they contain proprietary financials, personally identifiable information and other key data, and should be protected as such. &ldquo;Servers are considered the jackpot for cybercriminals, since they can store confidential corporate and employee information, medical records with social security numbers or private customer documents. It would be devastating for organisations to lose this kind of sensitive data to ransomware,&rdquo; said Dan Schiappa, senior vice president and general manager of Sophos&rsquo; End user and Network Security Groups. &ldquo;Most organisations back-up their data, but recovery from a backup is not always easy. Businesses, schools or hospitals do not want the liability, hassle and operational disruption required to restore from a backup. Anti-ransomware technology is a critical layer for the protection and ongoing accessibility of the information that resides on servers. Sophos has optimized its Server Protection products with CryptoGuard, adding another layer of next-gen protection to block this pervasive and highly-damaging cyber threat.&rdquo; Sophos Server Protection products with CryptoGuard capabilities now includes Central Server Protection Advanced on the cloud-based Sophos Central platform and Sophos Server Protection Enterprise, which is managed with a traditional on premise console. &ldquo;Protection for servers is especially critical for our customers who allow remote desktop connections or have weak desktop credentials, which is a known vulnerability for ransomware attacks. Even our customers who have put every safeguard in place could still have an exposed server, due to that one rogue laptop someone connects into the network. Just one click on a tainted email could encrypt every file with ransomware. We&rsquo;ve seen this happen with a customer, so from a technical standpoint, it is exciting to have anti-ransomware capabilities at the server level,&rdquo; said Dan Russell, chief information officer, Pine Cove Consulting, a Sophos channel partner based in Bozeman, Montana.