A mother, her son and a friend were shot dead in cold blood in their house in Kabete, Kiambu County, on Saturday night. Hannah Mumbi, 43, her 24-year-old son James Ndungu and a boda boda operator, Peter Waweru Nduta, 19, were killed under unclear circumstances. It has also emerged that two days before the killings, Ndungu, a mechanic based in Wangige Town, had been arrested by people said to be police officers over allegations he was involved in crime. He was later found unconscious in Wangige with bruises all over his body. &quot;May be those who attacked and dumped him in Wangige thought he would die,&quot; Mr David Njenga, a family friend said. The family suspect Ndungu might have been attacked after a deal went sour and later killed in an attack that has left the entire Gathiga village in mourning. ALSO READ: Nairobi-Naivasha highway turned into dumping ground for dead bodies Nduta had just brought Ndung&#39;u home when the killers pounced. The motive of the killings, however, remain a mystery. Their bullet-riddled bodies were found in the house by locals who came to find out what was happening after they heard gunshots. Police said they have already launched investigations into the incident. They said killers escaped without stealing anything from their victims. Bullet holes were evident on the walls of the house. Officers who visited the scene said they recovered 14 spent cartridges. Locals said the attackers arrived in two cars and parked them a few meters away. A relative, John Gathitu, said he rushed to the scene after hearing gunshots only to find two lifeless bodies in the sitting room. Ndung&#39;u&#39;s body was in the bathroom. Livingston Kanja, 20, a neighbour, said he tried to go out after hearing gunshots but one of the attackers ordered him to switch off his TV, lights and remain in the house. &quot;It was a terrifying moment as the killers forced us to remain indoors,&quot; he said, adding, &quot;There was a commotion before the victims were shot dead during the attack that lasted about 10 minutes,&quot; Kanja said. ALSO READ: Suspects in Pastor Muiru's mother death remanded &quot;We will not just sit and allow the matter to fade away. We demand that relevant agencies investigate the matter and bring culprits to book,&quot; said a relative, Paul Kuria.