Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang&rsquo;i has said Sh6 billion has been allocated for construction of classrooms to facilitate transition to secondary school. Part of the money will be used to construct approximately 2,000 classrooms in various secondary schools. &ldquo;The ministry is working with various stakeholders in the education sector to ensure there is 100 per cent transition of learners to secondary school,&rdquo; he said. The CS said, this year, at least 1,022,000 pupils will sit for their Kenya Certificate of Primary Education examination, and all these are expected to transition to secondary school by next year. Matiang&rsquo;i also said there is a lot of wastage of education resources and issued a stern warning to principals who mismanage funds. &ldquo;A lot of money is put into this sector but there is high misuse of the resources. For example, 57 per cent of money allocated for purchasing books and other materials is misappropriated. There is also no transparency on how funds are used and this will no longer be allowed to go on,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: Matiang'i appoints CUE Commissioners The CS was addressing principals from Uasin Gishu County during the Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association meeting held in Nakuru County yesterday. Took issue He also took issue with principals who come up with &ldquo;school bus purchase projects&rdquo; saying these are contributing to the high school drop out rate. Matiang&rsquo;i said most school heads take loans to purchase these vehicles and later force parents to pay the loans, despite them having not been consulted during the planning process. The CS said school management teams should notify the County Education Board whenever they want to engage in any project. They should then write to the ministry for approval of the project, that might also be allocated funds. &ldquo;This school buses business has become an avenue to fleece parents. This shall not be allowed to go on,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: Why plugging gender gaps require radical policy shift