National drama festival defending champions Kakamega High School Tuesday presented a play on how smartphones have torn families apart. The hall at Tom Mboya Labour College in Kisumu was filled to capacity as the students presented the play, &lsquo;The Web&rsquo;, written by the school&rsquo;s principal, Oliver Minishi. &lsquo;The Web&rsquo; is an unflattering depiction of the mobile phone as a dangerous gadget that has brought more harm than good to the family. Family members get ensnared in a web of moral decadence with illicit relationships, drug abuse, and a culture of cultism. The cast included J. Oswago, V. Omwenga, A. Nyadero, and T. Ngugi. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a problem even in school. We have found three students with mobile phones. Parents are very quick to buy their children phones when they pass exams but what they don&rsquo;t know is they are buying them death,&rdquo; says Mr Minishi. ALSO READ: You&rsquo;ll get your pay hike in July, TSC assures teachers He says students do not have the maturity to know what is wrong and what is good and that is why mobile phones are dangerous. Minishi claims the mobile phone has taken away social space and destroyed family unity. He calls for a policy to guide use of phones, especially by children. According to the principal, this would protect them from evil people out to exploit their innocence. Moved audience Borstal Shimo La Tewa School moved the audience with their choral verse, &lsquo;Saragona&rsquo;, that depicts the life of a juvenile delinquent who is ready to change and make a difference in his life. Written by Brian Omondi and directed by George Gitonga, the verse is a glimpse into the difficult life of young prisoners but also brings hope for those ready to mend their ways and start afresh. St Augustine Mukumu Boys High School presented a piece on the state of a people faced with deadly conflicts as a result of negative ethnicity. The verse, &lsquo;Bloated Dreams&rsquo;, by Victor Achesa, illuminates the positive values of living in peace and tranquillity. ALSO READ: State order sparks tug-of-war between Knut and Kuppet over members Drama teachers, practitioners, producers, academicians, and the media will be awarded for their contribution to the success of the annual Kenya Schools, Colleges and University Festival at the Imperial Hotel Kisumu. The awards, in their inaugural stage, have been organised by the National Drama Welfare Association (NADWA) that has spearheaded professionalism in drama teaching and practice in Kenya. &ldquo;We are ready to recognise players who have made this festival to grow to the level it has. These are the people who are hardly recognised for their role in the fete,&rdquo; said NADWA Chairman Hannington Ochieng, who is also the secretary of the Nairobi branch of the Kenya National Union of Teachers. Veteran thespian Joab Osiako will be the chief guest.