President Uhuru Kenyatta will today (Monday) launch a public information portal to allow Kenyans trace projects so far undertaken by the Jubilee administration. According to State House spokesperson Manoah Esipisu, the portal will showcase various national government programmes and projects across the country. &quot;We encourage Kenyans to join in on the event that be broadcast live on a number of media stations,&quot; Mr Esipisu said at the Kisumu State Lodge yesterday. The open data web portal will allow Kenyans to see and question community projects and quickly understand what the State is doing. The web serves as the state-wide accountability measure for the state-funded projects. ALSO READ: President Uhuru's directive to pay doctors timely, now honour agreement This is the first time such a tracking system is being launched in Kenya to improve accountability and transparency in government. Opposition leaders led by Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka have been on the neck of the ruling regime to account for all the projects they had done to Kenyans. &quot;Prior to the website, Kenyans had to go to a number of websites for a full picture of their school&#39;s performance and compare it to other schools or prior years,&quot; he added. Users can also access the site from any device with an internet connection. Esipisu explained the web portal site should be highly functional and intuitive on the major desktop Internet browsers as well as mobile devices. Meanwhile, the Government in collaboration with other development partners will spend Sh200 million to remove the noxious water hyacinth from Lake Victoria. The drastic action comes amid growing public concern on how the weed has affected the much-hyped blue economy concept that President Uhuru has been passionate about. ALSO READ: Efforts by activist Omtata to prevent allocation of land to self help group suffer blow Currently, there are virtually no key activities going in the lake right from fishing to boat transport which are key to the lakeside city&#39;s domestic economy. On Sunday, Esipisu said the removal of the weed would kick off soon. Recently, lobby groups demonstrated in Kisumu over the weed menace.