Leaders sign new deal to enhance the two countries&#39; ties in trade and security. New Seychelles President&nbsp;Danny Faure yesterday expressed his desire to hire Kenyan teachers. Mr Faure, who met&nbsp;President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House, Nairobi, noted that Kenya has outstanding teachers. &quot;You still have good teachers,&quot; he said in reference to 400 Kenyans who are working in various sectors in Seychelles, including in schools. During the meeting, Kenya and Seychelles entered a new deal to enhance the two countries&#39; ties in trade and security. The pact was a culmination of bilateral talks between Mr Kenyatta and Faure, who visited the country on his maiden foreign trip since he was elected six months ago. ALSO READ: Uhuru's sister Pratt campaigns for brother and Jubilee The two reached a broad-based agreement that will see Kenya export more human capital and agricultural products to Seychelles. Faure said it would make more economic sense for his country to import beef and poultry from Kenya instead of countries like Brazil. Seychelles will support Kenya in developing its maritime sector especially the fishing industry, which Kenya has paid little attention to since independence. Speaking during a press briefing after their talks, the two presidents announced that Seychelles would support Kenya to make the port of Mombasa a fish trans-shipment point. The presidents, who were joined by Deputy President William Ruto during the meeting, also reached a deal to have Kenya and Seychelles co-operate in tourism development by partnering the agencies managing the sectors in the two countries. Kenyatta noted both Kenya and Seychelles had tourism products that they are famous for and it would make economic sense if they partnered to promote each other. Kenya is known for its safari tourism while Seychelles is known for its beach destinations. As part of efforts to enhance close co-operation between the two nations, Kenya Airways will also increase its flights to Seychelles. &quot;It is both our ambition and intention to ensure that we do everything that we can to deepen regional trade investment and to grow our regional economies by working together,&quot; said Kenyatta. ALSO READ: Why President Uhuru shuffled his principal secretaries &quot;What we are doing now is to improve Government-to-Government ties,&quot; the President, who recognised the important role Seychelles has played in dealing with piracy and drug trafficking, said. Faure said his visit to Kenya &quot;has a true meaning&quot;. He praised Kenyatta for &quot;putting in place development to transform the country&quot;.