The discovery of the bullet riddled car belonging to the Kabete constituency aspirant Charles Chege populary known as &#39;Chege Fresh&#39; adds to fears of mischief as the August 8 elections draw near. Coming after Tiaty Constituency parliamentary seat aspirant Pepe Kitambaa and Loyamorock Ward MCA Kibet Cheretei were gunned down in cold blood by yet to be known gunmen, there is cause for worry. Because of the privilege and the exalted position those in politics occupy, political competition has grown fierce over time. And therefore, the stakes couldn&#39;t be higher in party primaries that took off last week. Sadly, the shambolic nature of the nominations brought out the worst of political parties and those who run them. Most or all of them, lack structures and personnel to run. This week, the Jubilee Party commences its party primaries. Already, with a star-studded field that reads like a who-is-who in public life in some areas, there is bound to be friction. This is undesirable, yet inescapable. But a little restraint and the realisation that there ought not be a bad ending should guide the candidates and the voters to choose peace. Many lessons can be drawn from all the ugly scenes we have experienced in the last week. One of them is that often, voters wonder where the rain started beating them when things do not work to their expectations. Corruption, ineptitude reigns supreme in our society because the electorate is duped into settling for less. Plain and simple. These are people who have, from the outset, failed the test of Chapter Six of the Constitution 2010 on leadership and integrity, but somehow find their way into leadership. Kenyans must run those who have offered themselves for office through a microscope. It follows that an individual who thinks nothing of unleashing violence or even eliminating a competitor will not worry much about looting public resources. We should be disgusted and feel angry about such leaders. Truly speaking, some individuals have no business masquerading as masters of change. ALSO READ: Missing Kabete aspirant Chege Fresh found in Narok