Governor William Kabogo is exuding confidence that he will clinch the Jubilee ticket during the April 21 party nominations. Mr Kabogo, who spoke at Thika Stadium when he launched his re-election bid on Saturday, is optimistic about flooring his main challenger, Kabete MP Ferdinand Waititu. &ldquo;April 21 will be the day boys will be separated from men. I am telling you I will show my opponents dust in the primaries. They better be prepared for a humiliating defeat,&rdquo; Kabogo said. During the event, Kabogo enumerated his achievements over the four years he has been in office, including the Sh300 million Biashara Fund that has been giving youths loans to start businesses. &ldquo;I am sure the people of Kiambu will give me another term to complete the work I began. After all, my development record speaks for itself,&rdquo; said the governor. &ldquo;We have also improved access to water from 30 to 48 per cent and built more than 1,000km of roads to gravel standards.&rdquo; ALSO READ: Kabogo, Waititu rivalry overshadows President Uhuru&rsquo;s tour Kabogo said his administration had also scored big on health, with a project to expand several hospitals at a cost of Sh1.5 billion currently ongoing. Reproductive health This includes a Sh660 million 275-bed reproductive health unit at the Thika Level Five Hospital, a 200-bed expansion project at Tigoni Level Four Hospital, which will cost Sh160 million, and a 150-bed expansion programme for the Kikuyu Level Four Hospital at a cost of Sh211 million. The programme will also see Wangige Level Four Hospital&rsquo;s capacity enhanced by 150 beds at a cost of Sh220 million. Lari Level Four Hospital will also get an extra 200 beds at a cost of Sh191 million. Kabogo said the expansion was expected to ease congestion at the Thika, Gatundu and Kiambu Level Four hospitals. These have been hardest hit by an influx of patients from the neighbouring Murang&rsquo;a, Nairobi, Machakos, Kirinyaga, and Nakuru counties. &ldquo;I have done well in the last four years and Kiambu has in fact become a role model for other counties to benchmark,&rdquo; he said. He added that there was still much work to be done including provision of water for all residents and more road construction. ALSO READ: MP Waititu endorsed to fight it out with Governor Kabogo for Jubilee Party ticket &ldquo;All indications are clear that residents will give me a second term as evidenced in the findings of the latest opinion polls that put me ahead of my rival,&rdquo; said the governor. A survey by Infotrak shows Kabogo will win over Waititu with 48.9 per cent. Waititu has a rating approval of 31.8 per cent. Another 14.6 per cent of those polled are still undecided on who to support. James Nyoro, who lost to Kabogo in the last elections, is third with 4.5 per cent.&nbsp;