&nbsp; NASA Founder and ANC Party Leader Musalia Mudavadi demonstrates his prowess after being installed as an elder at Bware in Migori County. ODM and Amani National Congress (ANC) are gearing up for nominations in western Kenya, a region they both consider their stronghold. ANC&#39;s elections board met party officials in the region at the weekend to plan for the primaries as ODM assured aspirants of a free and fair exercise. Jubilee officials too had sessions with aspirants in these counties where they discussed possible ways of winning seats in the Opposition zones. ANC elections board chairman Martin Etyang&#39; said their meeting with aspirants provided an opportunity to discuss several issues including setting dates for the nominations and agreeing on modalities of conducting them. &quot;Apart from four counties in western - Busia, Kakamega, Vihiga and Bungoma - similar meetings are also going on in Nairobi, Rift Valley and Nyanza,&quot; Etyang&#39; said during a meeting at Sheywe Hotel in Kakamega Town. ALSO READ: Why ODM aspirants rejected elections board In another meeting in Busia Town, the party warned aspirants against engaging in election malpractices, including voter buying and violence. &quot;ANC has an election code, which aspirants must adhere to. Anyone who engages in unlawful activities to get a ticket will be disqualified,&quot; said Dr Alutalala Mukhwana of the Busia County Elections Board. The meeting at Afrique Hotel was attended by Governor Sospeter Ojaamong and his rival, Funyula MP Paul Otuoma, under tight security. Also in the Busia gubernatorial race, former Kisumu County Secretary Humphrey Nakitare, called on ANC to ensure a transparent process. &quot;The party has attracted many aspirants for different seats. We are hopeful that our nominations will be credible,&quot; said Nakitare. Otuoma and Ojaamong, who addressed the media separately, accused each other of attempts to ruin the exercise. Their supporters camped outside the meeting venue.&nbsp; ALSO READ: Aspirant governors scramble for clans