They had their longest running battles against the political establishment of their days, but they have now embraced the current regime in their greatest hour of need. The story of Narc-Kenya leader Martha Karua, Koigi Wamwere and Gitobu Imanyara is one of constant rebellion against the &ldquo;system&rdquo; of the day&mdash;until now. In their throbbing desire to bounce to political life, the trio have recoiled their rebellion into unequivocal endorsement for the re-election of President Uhuru, the scion of founding president Jomo Kenyatta and the undisputed favourite sonof the system. Imanyara was the last to throw his weight behind Uhuru two weeks ago after decamping into Alfred Mutua&rsquo;s Maendeleo Chap Chap (MCC) and announcing that he was now backing Uhuru&rsquo;s re-election. &ldquo;The last time I was forced to kneel and face Mount Kenya and say &ldquo;tuko pamoja&rdquo; three times. Today, I am glad to say that, quite voluntarily, I am facing Mount Kenya and I am supporting the re-election of President Kenyatta,&rdquo; Imanyara said on the day he decamped to MCC from Raila Odinga&rsquo;s ODM. From that media engagement, Imanyara has shied off discussing his unusual move drawing more speculation. ALSO READ: Small parties net defectors over fear of unfair primaries The move, he claimed, was arrived after &ldquo;deep thought&rdquo; and consideration of &ldquo;all factors&rdquo;. The justification; Uhuru needs more time to complete his term of service. Booking complete unit Karua is, however at home with her move, which is gaining acceptance in the Mount Kenya region where she is seeking to become a governor. For eight years, Karua fought the Central Kenya political hegemony which isolated her in favour of Uhuru in retired President Mwai Kibaki&rsquo;s succession line-up. &ldquo;On the day they announced Uhuru Kenyatta as a Deputy Prime Minister in 2008, Karua went ballistic. &ldquo;I remember we were in Serena at the mediation talks and she stomped out saying &lsquo;they have done it again.&rsquo; She vowed she would never allow them to do it again,&rdquo; a former member of the Serena mediation team told The Sunday Standard. Although she had earned a Cabinet position by virtue of her stringent support for Kibaki not just in 2007, but the many years they had walked together since multiparty, Karua was dropped like a hot potato when Uhuru came into the picture. She went underground for several&nbsp; months, eventually resigned from the Cabinet and opposed Uhuru in the 2013 General Election. She lost badly and closed ranks with the Opposition.&nbsp;&nbsp; In November last year, however, she pulled a surprise move. &ldquo;I will not be in presidential race. My people know where they want to cast their presidential vote, and I am telling them it is okay to vote me Governor in Narc Kenya and to support the President in Jubilee,&rdquo; Karua said. ALSO READ: I was called a prostitute, veteran tells women aspirants Koigi on the other hand, just like Imanyara and Karua, did not support the election of Uhuru Kenyatta in the 2013 election. He openly ridiculed the Jubilee alliance as a tribal alliance of two men at the top. In a &ldquo;well-thought&rdquo; move, folded his own Chama Cha Mwananchi, joined Jubilee and is running for Nakuru Senate seat.