&nbsp; Josephat Amadi (right), who is gunning for the Vihiga County governorship, accused Amani National Congress of rigging him out. [Photo:Phillip Orwa, Standard] About half of the MPs in 30 constituencies in Western region are seeking to defend their seats on different tickets. The MPs have mostly decamped from ODM and the defunct United Democratic Forum to Jubilee Party, where they secured direct nominations. Opposition parties in most parts of Western concluded their nominations by last Saturday save for a few areas where they were pushed to today and tomorrow. Amani National Congress (ANC) will hold its primaries in Bungoma today while Ford Kenya will have nominations in the same county, which it considers its stronghold, tomorrow. One of the most contentious primaries in the region was the one for the Busia governorship. Governor Sospeter Ojaamong battled for the ODM ticket against Funyula MP Paul Otuoma. ALSO READ: Raila&rsquo;s party kicks off exercise in Homa Bay, Migori Dr Otuoma disputed the results and eventually quit the party to vie for the same seat as an independent candidate. Legislators in the region who lost the nominations include Andrew Toboso (Butere), Raphael Otaalo (Lurambi), Anami Lisamula (Shinyalu), Benjamin Andola (Kwisero) and Rachael Ameso (Kakamega Woman Rep) as well as a host of ward representatives. Ms Ameso was eyeing the Khwisero parliamentary seat but lost in the ODM nominations. Mr Toboso disputed the results and will now contest as an independent candidate. Mr Otaalo conceded defeat while Mr Lisamula has appealed to the ODM Dispute Resolution and Appeals Tribunal. Ameso and Mr Andola are scheduled to appear before the tribunal today. Vihiga MP Yusuf Chanzu won the Amani National Congress (ANC) ticket to contest the governorship while Senator Boni Khalwale got a direct Ford Kenya nomination to vie for the governor&rsquo;s seat in Kakamega. Mr Chanzu joins Emuhaya MP Wilbur Otichillo in the race to unseat Vihiga Governor Moses Akaranga, who was unopposed in his Progressive Party of Kenya. Mr Otichillo bagged a direct ticket as he was unopposed in ODM. Dr Khalwale joins Mable Muruli, who is contesting via Jubilee Party, and Nairobi lawyer Mike Osundwa, who also got direct nomination from ANC in the race to unseat Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya. ALSO READ: MP Mwinyi slapped with ten charges after chaotic ODM polls Mr Oparanya, who is also ODM&rsquo;s deputy party leader, was unopposed and got a direct ticket. Mahiakalo MCA Cleophas Malala trounced his rival Alex Mukabwa in ANC&rsquo;s senatorial ticket contest in Kakamega and will now face Seth Panyako of ODM. In Vihiga County, Sabatia MP Alfred Agoi was also unopposed in ANC, same as newcomer Harun Muturi who got the ANC ticket for the Hamisi parliamentary seat. Direct tickets In Kakamega County, Likuyani MP Enock Kibunguchi (Ford Kenya) also bagged a direct ticket. Lugari MP Ayub Savula too got a direct ticket from his ANC party. In Bungoma, Governor Kenneth Lusaka and five legislators from the region were also handed direct Jubilee Party tickets. Mr Lusaka will face ODM&rsquo;s Alfred Khang&rsquo;ati who was unopposed. Also in the race will be the Ford Kenya candidate who wins in tomorrow&rsquo;s nominations. Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali, who is also a Jubilee point man in the region, his Navakholo counterpart Emmanuel Wangwe and Bernard Shinali of Ikolomani were also gifted with direct Jubilee tickets. Others were Dan Wanyama (Webuye West), John Waluke (Sirisia), Patrick Opembe (Khwisero) and Manyala Keya (Lurambi). ALSO READ: MP Mwinyi slapped with ten charges after chaotic ODM polls Matungu MP David Were, his Malava counterpart Moses Injendi and Boniface Otsula (Bumula) were not so lucky and will have to go through nominations. Former ODM national youth leader Rashid Mohammed also got a direct ticket from Jubilee to vie for Mumias West constituency. He will face ODM&rsquo;s Johnson Naicca. Busia Woman Rep Florence Mutua floored Happy Gloria, Judy Odeda and Winney Oyugi for the ODM ticket in Busia while Bungoma County Assembly Speaker, John Makali, won the ODM Kanduyi parliamentary primaries.&nbsp;