&nbsp; NAIROBI, KENYA: &nbsp;A survey focusing on travel trends for the Easter weekend, indicate that despite the constraints on the economy, local tourism continues to make its mark with Kenyans still &lsquo;beach-bound&rsquo; for the Easter weekend. The coast region leads at 42 percent, almost doubling city travel which is majorly represented by Nairobi at 23 percent, Naivasha and Nakuru take third place at 20 percent. The survey by Jumia Travel finds out that Nairobi makes a perfect destination for those ending the week&rsquo;s business with a bleisure (leisure+business getaway) trip, Nakuru and Naivasha are favored as short-haul destination by locals; easily accessed via adventurous road trips and without the hassle associated with long haul travel such as flights, and terrain driving. Being an off-season for the Mara triangle, the later comes in as the least popular. Perhaps due to lack of destination awareness, travelers tend to associate Mara region with the seasonal wildebeest migration, while missing on the bounteous wildlife and scenery that make the region. ALSO READ: Hotels project 70 percent bookings during Easter holiday &ldquo;This has led to the same receiving a low number of visitors during slow and shoulder seasons,&rdquo; says Jumia Travel. Popular Beach Destination The coast is still the most preferred destination, owing to the age old notion of associating vacations with sea, sun and sand. Leading on the top of the most popular beach is Bamburi at 24percent followed closely by Nyali at 23 percent, with Diani taking third place at 17percent. Popular National Parks Amboseli National Park leads at 29percent. Ease of access by road, the new rains which have favored the presence of wildlife hence making it easier for animal sightings and the fact that compared to other parks, Amboseli is viewed as more exclusive and off the beaten path. Lake Nakuru National Park takes second position at 22 percent and features as one of the many activities to engage in while spending Easter in the Rift, while The Aberdares comes with the advantage of self-drive. Both destinations are popular, for the variety of wildlife, ease of travel, and affordable family accommodation. Being a family holiday, travelers are looking for hotels that balance between amenities, family friendly service and cost. ALSO READ: Six members of same family die in accident at Ruai, Nairobi Key amenities for families include childminders, provision of extra beds and cots where need be as well as family friendly setting. Another major factor favoring three star stays is the provision of extra activities such as arrangements for sightseeing, park visits, sporting activities and family-oriented entertainment. One star facilities include camping sites, hostels and bed only accommodation mostly centered on basics than comfort or luxury; therefore, tending to attract the younger traveler keener on discovery and adventure rather than the hotel experience