Samsung Electronics Co Ltd on Thursday flagged stronger earnings and announced a cancellation of treasury shares after posting a solid first-quarter profit boosted by the memory chip business, sending its shares to a new high. Samsung rejected a call from U.S. activist hedge fund Elliott to split itself in two but accepted part of the fund&#39;s proposals on Thursday, revealing plans to cancel its existing treasury shares worth over $35 billion by 2018. While the first quarter was a torrid time for Samsung as chief Jay Y. Lee was swept up in a political corruption scandal, the world&#39;s top maker of memory chips, smartphones and televisions still managed to book a profit that supports expectations for record earnings in 2017. First-quarter operating profit for Asia&#39;s most valuable company by market capitalization was 9.9 trillion won ($8.75 billion), matching Samsung&#39;s earlier guidance. Revenue rose 2 percent to 50.5 trillion won. Elliott welcomed the share cancellation and said it saw &quot;room for even more progress&quot;. The fund had called for Samsung to adopt a holding company structure by splitting itself in two, and to pay out a 30 trillion won a special dividend. &quot;We are encouraged that Samsung Electronics has agreed to take the bold step of optimizing its balance sheet ... even as the company has faced obstacles,&quot; Elliot said in a statement. Samsung Electronics shares were up 2.6 percent at a record high in a flat wider market. In rejecting Elliott&#39;s call for a holding company structure, Samsung cited issues including regulatory and legal risks, and said it would not boost investor returns. &quot;Samsung concluded the risks and the challenging environment surrounding a change in the corporate structure would not be beneficial for enhancing shareholder value and sustaining long-term business growth,&quot; it said in a statement. CHIPS SIZZLE A memory chip super-cycle and the revival of the mobile business - damaged by the costly failure and fire-prone Galaxy Note 7 last year - look set to underpin Samsung&#39;s profitability after the best quarterly result since 2013. &quot;Looking ahead to the second quarter, the company expects to achieve growth on the back of continued robust memory performance together with improved earnings from the mobile business&quot; following the global rollout of the new Galaxy S8 smartphone, Samsung said in a statement. Samsung Electronics Co Ltd on Thursday flagged stronger earnings and announced a cancellation of treasury shares after posting a solid first-quarter profit boosted by the memory chip business, sending its shares to a new high. Samsung rejected a call from U.S. activist hedge fund Elliott to split itself in two but accepted part of the fund&#39;s proposals on Thursday, revealing plans to cancel its existing treasury shares worth over $35 billion by 2018. While the first quarter was a torrid time for Samsung as chief Jay Y. Lee was swept up in a political corruption scandal, the world&#39;s top maker of memory chips, smartphones and televisions still managed to book a profit that supports expectations for record earnings in 2017. First-quarter operating profit for Asia&#39;s most valuable company by market capitalization was 9.9 trillion won ($8.75 billion), matching Samsung&#39;s earlier guidance. Revenue rose 2 percent to 50.5 trillion won. Elliott welcomed the share cancellation and said it saw &quot;room for even more progress&quot;. The fund had called for Samsung to adopt a holding company structure by splitting itself in two, and to pay out a 30 trillion won a special dividend. &quot;We are encouraged that Samsung Electronics has agreed to take the bold step of optimizing its balance sheet ... even as the company has faced obstacles,&quot; Elliot said in a statement. Samsung Electronics shares were up 2.6 percent at a record high in a flat wider market. In rejecting Elliott&#39;s call for a holding company structure, Samsung cited issues including regulatory and legal risks, and said it would not boost investor returns. &quot;Samsung concluded the risks and the challenging environment surrounding a change in the corporate structure would not be beneficial for enhancing shareholder value and sustaining long-term business growth,&quot; it said in a statement. CHIPS SIZZLE A memory chip super-cycle and the revival of the mobile business - damaged by the costly failure and fire-prone Galaxy Note 7 last year - look set to underpin Samsung&#39;s profitability after the best quarterly result since 2013. &quot;Looking ahead to the second quarter, the company expects to achieve growth on the back of continued robust memory performance together with improved earnings from the mobile business&quot; following the global rollout of the new Galaxy S8 smartphone, Samsung said in a statement.