Three men were Thursday sentenced to life in prison for defiling and sodomising a 10-year-old girl on several occasions over one year. The child&rsquo;s uncle was sentenced to 20 years for participating in the attack and luring the minor into the house where she was defiled. According to the medical report from the Coast General Hospital presented to the court, the minor was infected with HIV by the three men who ganged up to defile her. The three will spend the rest of their lives at Shimo La Tewa Prison after the court ruled that they are unfit to be in society because of the attack on the child. Isaac Musembi alias Peter, Komu Muthini, Onesmus Mbuvi Musango, and Mutingo Kieu alias Dan defiled the Class Four pupil in Moroto slums in Tudor between January 2015 and April 2016. Thursday, Senior Resident Magistrate Edigah Kagoni said the men had turned the little girl into a sex object instead of protecting her. &ldquo;The girl required protection from society, the four of you included, but you turned her into your sex object. The society does not require people like you and I sentence you to life behind bars,&rdquo; said the magistrate. ALSO READ: Parents in Keiyo South threaten to lynch teacher over sodomy claims The magistrate accused the child&rsquo;s mother of being negligent and failing to take care of her daughter, who was defiled on several occasions. According to the investigating officer&rsquo;s report, the girl&rsquo;s mother sells local brew in the slums and had neglected the child. An officer said it was likely that charges would be preferred against the woman for failing to take care of the child and failing to report the attacks to the police. According to the testimony the girl gave in court, her uncle defiled her for the first time when she went to visit her father after her mother was admitted to hospital with a sibling who had fallen ill. He gave her Sh20. She said she told her mother what had happened but she did not do anything about it. [email&#160;protected]