Opposition leader Raila Odinga has said should NASA form the next government, all State officers campaigning for President Uhuru Kenyatta will be fired. Raila spoke yesterday at the Bomas of Kenya when he handed nomination certificates to at least 850 ODM candidates, who were cleared by the party&#39;s National Election Board (NEB) as an unopposed candidates for governor, MP and MCA seats. Raila said it was in contravention of the Constitution for Cabinet secretaries, Principal secretaries and other State officers to engage in politics. &quot;Uhuru must prepare to leave office with his political civil servants. We will not allow them to serve in NASA government. &quot;When State House says it is normal for State officers to campaign, then something is wrong,&quot; said Raila. Cabinet Secretaries Mwangi Kiunjuri (Devolution), Charles Keter (Energy) and Eugene Wamalwa (Water) have been seen in campaign trails with President Uhuru. ALSO READ: Joho alleges death plot in Migori rally violence While campaigning in Kisii, Uhuru was accompanied by Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang&#39;i. Some Principal secretaries have also been engaging in politics. During the last phase of mass voter registration, Lands PS Nicholas Muraguri (formerly Health) was in Nyeri mobilising Jubilee supporters to list ahead of the polls. Elections Act provides that a public officer should not be involved in activities of a political party or candidate. &quot;A public officer who contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and is liable on conviction, to a fine not exceeding Sh1 million or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years, or to both,&quot; states the Act. On Sunday, State House defended the officers saying they were supporting Uhuru because &quot;they are accountable to the President who appointed them and whose vision of service they have to operationalise&quot;. He said the only hope Jubilee is hanging on to win the polls is a fallout in NASA or a rigged elections. Raila assured Opposition supporters that NASA is strongly united and will not split ahead of the polls. ALSO READ: Go through promises with a very fine tooth-comb ahead of August poll