Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo and his Rarieda counterpart Nicholas Gumbo have warned of a rebellion against the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) in Nyanza over the just ended party primaries. The two leaders said the party must move with speed and resolve what they termed massive irregularities in the nominations or face a revolt from voters. Midiwo, a long-time ally of party leader Raila Odinga lost the party ticket to Nairobi businessman Elisha Odhiambo while Gumbo lost Siaya governorship nomination to Governor Cornel Rasanga. The duo said the &ldquo;mess&rdquo; in the nominations will affect Raila&rsquo;s performance in the August 8 polls. &ldquo;We will not kneel before ODM disputes tribunal for redress on bungled elections. If we don&rsquo;t get the certificates by today evening, we are going to fight for our rights as independent candidates,&rdquo; said Midiwo. The two, accompanied by Siaya Woman Rep aspirant Florence Aluodo, addressed several rallies in Gem constituency yesterday. They have been driving through the county ever since they rejected the nomination results on Tuesday. ALSO READ: Graft fears as thrashed governors still in office They accused nominated MP Oburu Oginga of spoiling for Raila in Luo Nyanza by imposing leaders on the people. &ldquo;If they do not give us our right, we will face off with their imposed candidates for a clash never seen before. The IEBC, not Oburu, will be the referee,&rdquo; said Gumbo. The Rarieda MP claims he floored Rasanga by over 70,000 votes and beating him in all but one sub-county. &ldquo;Rasanga does not have the capacity to lift you off poverty neither does he have the will to improve your lives,&rdquo; he said. Addressing a rally at Yala, Midiwo said, &ldquo;Gideon Ochanda massively floored Oburu in Bondo but he is now trying to alter the results. There is no going back.&rdquo; Gumbo said, &ldquo;We have stood with ODM more than anyone else in this county, Jakoyo&rsquo;s commitment in protecting ODM and its leaders is only second to that of James Orengo in the entire Nyanza region.&rdquo; Aluodo said the National Elections Board posted partisan officials to Siaya to favour their opponents. ALSO READ: Raila can continue ignoring on-goings at IEBC at his own peril