The Director of Public Prosecutions Keriako Tobiko has directed police to investigate chaos that erupted during a rally in Migori on Monday. Tobiko told Director of Criminal Investigations Ndegwa Muhoro to submit the file with the findings to his offices as soon as investigations are completed. &ldquo;Please expedite,&rdquo; a letter sent to Muhoro said. This came after two people were shot and injured in the chaos that broke out at the rally that was meant to be the launch of re-election bid for Suna East MP Junet Mohamed. Among those shot at was Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho&rsquo;s bodyguard who sustained an injury in the leg. He and another person were admitted to hospital in Migori following the chaos. Officials said the bodyguard, Mr Salim Manzwana, was shot in the leg as he attempted to shield Joho after chaos broke out at Migori Posta Grounds. ALSO READ: 28 more banks under probe over NYS scandal Joho&rsquo;s friends and colleagues have condemned the incident saying it was an assassination attempt on ODM leaders. They accused area governor Okoth Obado of being behind the chaos. No official comment has come from police on the incident even as investigations were launched. Mohammed and MPs Millie Odhiambo (Mbita), Peter Kaluma (Homa Bay Town), Migori governorship aspirant Ochillo Ayacko and the party&rsquo;s county chairman Philip Makabong&rsquo;o on Monday claimed the gunshot that got Joho&rsquo;s bodyguard was aimed at the governor. Obado and the local police have since denied sponsoring the violence. Shots were fired and scores of people injured when the campaign launch turned violent. Joho, senators James Orengo (Siaya), Anyang&rsquo; Nyong&rsquo;o (Kisumu) and several officials and aspirants were in Migori to attend campaign launch for Mohamed when the violence broke out. The leaders suffered bruises in the melee that paralysed the busy town for close to five hours. ALSO READ: Tobiko under fire from defence team for asking court to allow him amend charges against Shollei again During the fracas, police and the politicians&rsquo; bodyguards fired dozens of shots in the air and used tear gas to disperse the crowd. Hundreds of those who had attended the rally hid under vehicles, in kiosks, and in toilets as gunfire rocked the border town. After calm returned, Joho claimed the bullet that injured his bodyguard during the melee was meant for him. &ldquo;This was an assassination attempt. I was the target, look at my vehicle, it will demonstrate to you what happened in Migori today&rdquo; he told journalists. The Mombasa governor together with Orengo and Nyong&rsquo;o later flew with the bodyguard to Nairobi. Joho and other party officials were set to open ODM offices in Uriri, Kegonga, and a county office in Migori town. Obado has denied having a hand in the chaos. ALSO READ: Keriako Tobiko withdraws all cases of criminal libel