There&#39;s something refreshing about the great outdoors. Nothing can beat the first breathe of fresh country air you take in on a cold crisp morning, or the vibrant chirps of early birds as they usher in the day. Nature is unequivocally beautiful. Typically, there are people like me who don&#39;t mind switching off for a couple of days to just bond with Mother Nature. In fact it is recommended now and then to take a break from technology and life&#39;s busy schedule to just recharge and renew our bodies. I recently discovered an untapped territory that is begging to be explored; the Ol Donyo Sabuk National Park! Little is known about this gem. The name, which means &#39;big mountain&#39;, was given by Maasai pastoralists in reference to the towering peak of the mountain at a height of 2,145m. The mountain is also known as Kilimambogo in Kikuyu and Swahili, meaning Buffalo Hill or Mountain due to the numerous dominant buffalo in the area. It is also one of my favourite places to visit because my family comes from the area and it is a feature in my happy childhood memories. Within easy reach of Nairobi, the lush vegetation and cool air of this compact and scenic national park makes for an ideal day trip or camping weekend. So how does one get there? From Thika town, proceed 22 km along the main Garissa road to Makutano junction. At Makutano, follow the KWS sign and turn right, proceeding 3km on an all-weather murram road to Donyo town. Just one road leads to its summit, which offers magnificent 360&#39; panoramas over the Athi River, the pineapple fields of Thika and the snow-capped peaks of both Mount Kilimanjaro and Mount Kenya. For hiking enthusiasts, this mountain is ideal for a day hike. The 10km climb to the top takes between two to three hours depending on your level of fitness, with the descent taking another two hours. Barely two kilometres from the top, you pass by the grave of Lord William Northrup MacMillan, an American who owned the mountain during the colonial era and hosted the former US President Theodore Roosevelt during his Safari to Kenya in 1911, and the wartime British Prime Minister Sir Winston Churchill. At the KWS Park Gate, there is a serviced campsite for those who wish to spend the night and do the hike very early when chances of encountering herds of buffaloes are much higher. KWS self-catering accommodation includes Sabuk guesthouse, which sleeps around 10 people. There is ample accommodation in Thika town, in case you find the guesthouse booked. About 3km from Ol Donyo Sabuk is the Fourteen Falls on Athi River, an attraction not to be missed when you are in the neighborhood. Access to the Waterfalls is currently managed by Thika County Council, which charges visitors a modest fee.