The Orange Democratic Movement has put on hold nomination results for Taita Taveta as it emerged that party members in five polling stations did not cast their ballot. Chair of National Elections Board Judith Pareno said nomination exercise in the five stations will take place on Saturday, April 22. Provisional results from the ODM primaries indicated that Wundanyi MP Thomas Mwadeghu was leading Governor John Mruttu. Two days of drama at the CDF Hall tallying centre in Mwatate where candidates have spent tense sleepless nights since Tuesday took a new twist Wednesday evening when the party&#39;s electoral board announced provisional results showing Mwadeghu leading with 17,567 votes against Mruttu&#39;s 14,817 votes. The announcement by County Returning Officer Lawrence Sempele sparked new anxiety when he said the tally excluded five polling stations in Taveta sub-county where voting did not take place on Tuesday due to heavy rains, late arrival of voting material and lack of voting kits. However, Mr Sempele said the results were not final, and that the final results will be announced after fresh polling in the five centres. ALSO READ: Anger and confusion mar ODM Party primaries &quot;I have not declared any candidate for governor, senator and women representative seats. These are provisional results which can change when voters in [the five polling stations] Taveta cast their votes,&rdquo; he said. But Mwadeghu protested, insisting that he would not participate in any repeat voting in the said stations. Mwadeghu alleged that electoral officials had altered results in many areas in Voi and Mwatate to favour Mruttu. Mruttu was not at the tallying centre in Mwatate. His deputy, Mary Ndiga Kibuka told The Standard that he was in Taveta where voting in the five polling stations was going on. Anastazia Wakesho who is contesting the Woman Representative ticket secured 14,684 votes against Hope Sanguli Mwakio&#39;s 16,238 votes. In the senatorial contest Richard Tairo had secured 11,068 votes against Jones Mwaruma&#39;s 21,037 votes.&nbsp; ALSO READ: We will arrest you, police tell ODM chairman John Mbadi