All political parties have until the end of this month to choose candidates that will represent them on the 8th of August, and just like before, we have seen drama, chaos, allegations of rigging and violence. In ODM primaries, we have witnessed drama- from mudslinging of opponents through fake news, allegations of ballot stuffing and abnormal voter turnouts. Ironically, this follows the signing of a code of conduct with IEBC. Now, some may say that we should mind our own business and allow parties to go through the process but allow me to remind you why this matters to all of us, whether we are party members or not. It has been previously said that political party business is our business. Taxpayers fork out millions of shiliings every year to finance big parties therefore we should be concerned with the issues we have seen so far. These same parties are the ones that have consistently called out the electoral management body for the same issues they now seem unable to handle. ALSO READ: MP Naomi Shaban ditches Jubilee party over rigging plot If parties expect IEBC to conduct a free and fair election, then this is their opportunity to show how this can be done. Jubilee will be conducting their primaries Friday, and we expect no less from them as well. Truth is, for the strongholds of the parties, a nomination certificate may well be as good as a win in the general election. The hot contests are therefore expected! The pre-election period is just as important as election day itself. We must hold each and every political party to account, just as we do IEBC. Besides receiving our money, they are an important cornerstone of democracy. And this brings me to my second point, political parties are made up of ordinary members. This is their time to take a stand. Take their parties back. You see, with just one vote, party members can stand up to the so-called party owners. They say chama ina wenyewe but the real owners are the ordinary members. So if you belong to any political party, this is your moment. ALSO READ: MP Naomi Shaban ditches Jubilee party over rigging plot Decide the route your party will take. Will it be democratic? Inclusive of both women and youth? It may all sound academic or philosophical but I believe that the sheer number of party members can wield more power than the few individuals that fund the parties.Therefore, bulldoze the decisions. It is time for the real members, party owners, to stand up. Will you? @YvonneOkwara