Political capital. That intangible currency that can transform political lightweights into heavyweight champions. That trust and goodwill which a politician builds up over time; that momentum which pushes him to the peak of popularity. Ultimately, these factors combined can be distilled into power in its purest form. The kind of power that is drawn directly from the people, from their unwavering belief in the suitability of their chosen leader or preferred candidate. But just like any other form of wealth, political capital takes a while to create. You don&rsquo;t just wake up one day and find that your account is in credit. You have to work at it. Schmooze with the big wigs. Wheel and deal. Cultivate favour with the higher ups, all the while convincing the common man that you have his interests at heart. If you want the kind of power only ambitious men dream about, then you have to understand that you&rsquo;re in it for the long con. This is not about playing petty politics. You start small but maintain a steady gaze on the prize. If you have a natural charm and an undeniable charisma then you have a leg-up on all the other crabs at the bottom of the bucket, pulling their competitors down as they try to level the playing field. Political ambitions But politics is a game of numbers and if your dollar bills don&rsquo;t stack up, neither will your capital. So naturally you need a war-chest to fund your ambitions. You must be able to put your money where your mouth is. And since our land is Kenya, you don&rsquo;t have to worry about the well from whence your resources spring, sullied though that well may be. As you rise higher and higher on the popularity scale, no one will care where the cash came from. Whether you&rsquo;re a Don, a Boss or a Sultan, your followers will become adept at separating the man from the mess. And while it is an accepted truth that building political capital usually takes years of sacrifice, sometimes you can win the lottery. ALSO READ: Chaotic party primaries undermine our democracy Sometimes the universe will conspire to hand you an unexpected political boost. A boost that pushes your account so far into the black, you begin to imagine that you will never have to work for another vote in your life. And when this boost manifests in the sheer folly of your arch-rivals, it easy to become arrogant. Most especially if you are a governor and your arch-rival is the President. If the man on the hill is taking time out of his schedule to street-fight with a regional king pin, then clearly you are punching above your weight. The political capital that accrues from taking on the head of state will earn you trust and goodwill in spades. The people will see you as principled. Courageous. Bold. Fearless. When you speak, they will feel that you speak for them. When you&rsquo;re attacked, they will feel your pain. You will become the voice of the voiceless. The unwavering catalyst for change. And that is all well and good. But the cracks in your revolutionary armour will quickly begin to appear when you start to spend that capital faster than your rivals can hand it to you. When you begin to believe that it&rsquo;s you against the world, and not you on behalf of the people. When you begin to spin every occurrence in your life - even those of your own making - as acts of aggression instigated by your enemies. When instead of being burned, you bask in the glare of the spotlight. When your political capital becomes a fund for your own ambitions, and you extend your hand for the advancement of yourself and your party at the expense of the greater good. But hey, when you have so much clout as to endorse the election of candidates of your choosing, it can be difficult to remember the days when you pounded the pavement in pursuit of a meagre parliamentary seat. But you must. You must remember that without the man on the streets, politics is a zero-sum game. That without the people, the pursuit of power is meaningless. But if you remember nothing else, remember this: Political capital doesn&rsquo;t come easy, whether you win the jackpot or not. Don&rsquo;t squander it. Have a seat. Be humble. Ms. Masiga is Peace and Security Editor, The Conversation Africa ALSO READ: Former Jubilee officials say they were fired in scramble for Sh300m tender