President Donald Trump on Tuesday will order federal agencies to look at tightening a temporary visa program used to bring high-skilled foreign workers to the United States, as he tries to carry out his campaign pledges to put &quot;America First.&quot; Trump will sign an executive order on enforcing and reviewing the H-1B visa, popular in the technology industry, on a visit to the headquarters of Snap-On Inc, a tool manufacturer in Kenosha, Wisconsin, senior administration officials said. He will also use what the White House called the &quot;Buy American and Hire American&quot; order to seek changes in government procurement that would boost purchases of American products in federal contracts, with one aim being to help U.S. steelmakers. The moves will show Trump once again using his power to issue executive orders to try to fulfill promises he made last year in his election campaign, in this case to reform U.S. immigration policies and encourage purchases of American products. Senior officials gave few details on implementation of the order but Trump aides have expressed concern that most H-1B visas are awarded for lower-paid jobs at outsourcing firms, many based in India, which they say takes work away from Americans. They seek a more merit-based way to give the visas to highly skilled workers. ALSO READ: North Korea warns of nuclear strike on the United States if provoked Companies that specialize in applying for H-1B visas on behalf of foreign workers, then connecting those workers with U.S. employers, include Tata Consultancy Services Ltd, Cognizant Tech Solutions Corp and Infosys Ltd. Their business models could be affected by any changes to the H-1B system. None of the three companies immediately responded to a request for comment. Infosys, India&#39;s No. 2 IT services firm, has said it is ramping up work on on-site development centers in the United States to train local talent in an effort to address the visa regulation changes under consideration. It warned last week that onerous changes to U.S. visa rules could affect its earnings. As he nears the 100-day benchmark of his presidency, Trump still has no major legislative achievements. With his attempts to overhaul healthcare and tax law not bearing fruit so far in a Congress controlled by his fellow Republicans, Trump has leaned heavily on executive orders to seek changes to the U.S. economy. The venue for Trump&#39;s visit on Tuesday is a nod to his voter base in the manufacturing centers of the American heartland. Wisconsin unexpectedly voted for the Republican last year, partly due to his promises to bring back industrial jobs. ALSO READ: North Korea warns of nuclear strike on the United States if provoked His order will call for &quot;strict enforcement of all laws governing entry into the United States of labor from abroad for the stated purpose of creating higher wages and higher employment rates for workers in the United States,&quot; a senior official said. &quot;FRAUD AND ABUSE&quot; It will call on the departments of Labor, Justice, Homeland Security and State to crack down on what the official called &quot;fraud and abuse&quot; in the U.S. immigration system, in order to protect American workers. Instead of directly ordering a change to the H-1B visa program, Trump is taking a more cautious route that will likely take some time to produce actual results. He will ask those federal departments to propose reforms to ensure those visas are awarded to the most skilled or highest paid applicant. H-1B visas are intended for foreign nationals in occupations that generally require higher education, including science, engineering or computer programming. The government uses a lottery to award 65,000 visas every year and randomly distributes another 20,000 to graduate student workers. More than 15 percent of Facebook Inc&#39;s U.S. employees in 2016 used a temporary work visa, according to a Reuters analysis of U.S. Labor Department filings. Critics say the lottery benefits outsourcing firms that flood the system with mass applications. ALSO READ: North Korea warns of nuclear strike on the United States if provoked The senior official said that under the current system foreign workers are often brought in at less pay to replace American workers, &quot;violating the principle of the program.&quot;