Universities will not be allowed to hold graduation before all their students have not been given examination marks. Beginning this year, the Government will also fund institutions of higher learning based on the type of courses they offer and number of students. Also, in the near future, students will be able to transfer examination credits from public to private universities and vice versa. Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang&rsquo;i Wednesday said the Government had finalised a report on differentiated unit cost (DUC) adding that the ministry will no longer fund universities without proper structures. Addressing the universities&rsquo; 1st Chancellors Convention at Safari Park Hotel, Dr Matiang&rsquo;i said the Government was keen on reforming the higher education sector. &ldquo;I have thousands of complaints and petitions in my office where students and their parents are complaining about the quality of education in our universities,&rdquo; Matiang&rsquo;i said. ALSO READ: KCSE students didn't fail, pedagogy failed them He pointed out that there were cases where universities allow students to graduate before receiving their examination results. Quality down &ldquo;Last year, one university had 600 students who graduated without being given their marks. From today, no university will be allowed to hold graduation ceremonies even when one student has no marks,&rdquo; the CS said. He noted that the quality of higher education in the country had deteriorated and needed urgent revival. &ldquo;I met one lecturer who told me that he was marking exam transcripts of 2,180 students. There are also reports of part-time lecturers who teach in five different institutions. This is the reason we are releasing unqualified graduates to the market,&rdquo; Matiang&rsquo;i said. The CS said the Government has enough money to fund higher education and that what is required is for partnership with the private sector to offer quality education to Kenyans. &ldquo;I promise you that we know the cost of each course in the country based on a report we commissioned. We know the cost of sciences, arts and humanities. We will now provide funds to universities based on the type of courses and number of students they have. That means you might have thousands of students and get less money,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: Audit university education to end academic capitalism, bogus courses