Four people accused of stealing Sh52 million from Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) have been charged with more offences.
 After being charged with stealing the money from the bank’s Thika branch last month, Halford Munene, his brother Charles Mwangi, Julius Ndung’u and Shem Karani were yesterday charged with being in possession of stolen property. 
 ALSO READ:

More charges await four suspects in KCB’s Sh52m theft

 Munene, Mwangi and Ndungu’u were charged with being in possession of 200 identity cards, 200 Orange sim cards, 1,239 MTN sim cards, seven CPUs and 305 telecommunications authority cards suspected to be stolen property.
 Karani was charged with being in possession of three identity cards, also suspected to have been stolen. The cards were found on him in Mtwapa in Kilifi County, where he was arrested.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Denied charges
 However, the suspects denied the charges before Thika Chief Magistrate Teresia Murigi.
 Defence lawyer Waithera Mwangi, for the first three accused persons, asked the court to order the prosecution to furnish her with copies of the charge sheets, witness statements and exhibits to be used in the case.
 The lawyer also applied for the review of bail terms saying her clients are unable to raise the bond.
 The four who are still in custody were recently released by the court on a Sh4 million bond each with a surety of a similar amount.
 “My clients have been unable to raise the bond since they come from humble backgrounds. They are praying the court grants them bond that is within their reach,” Mwangi said. 
 ALSO READ:

How a bout of ulcers birthed an idea that’s got investor attention

 She told the court the accused were not a flight risk since two of them are married and have young families while the third engaged to get married soon.
 However, prosecutor Counsel Stella Oyagi opposed bail terms review application on grounds they may interfere with investigations.
 They were charged that, through an underground tunnel, they stole over Sh52 from the bank between November 18 and 20.
 They were also accused of stealing 95 Australian dollars, 185 Euros, 1,630 British pounds, 271,000 Tanzanian shillings, 947,000 Ugandan shillings, five Canadian dollars and 40 South African rand. The case was adjourned to December 20 when a report on their bail application will be presented.
