Primary and Secondary schools operated in the same compounds will be run by one management, a statement by the Cabinet Secretary of education Dr Fred Matiangi has revealed.
 Speaking during the launch of Form 1 Selection at Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development in Nairobi Monday afternoon, Matiangi lamented the recent decline in performance of such schools, which he attributed to poor management.
 His statement partly reads: “performance in a number of schools that have both primary and secondary schools in the same environment have often been beset with legitimacy squabbles and turf wars which tend to compromise teaching and learning programmes.”
 The statement further indicates that the ministry is in liaison with Teachers Service Commission to ensure that such schools will be under same board management with one overall principal. However, there will be two deputies where one will be at primary level and another at the secondary level.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Matiangi says that such a move will facilitate the utilization of resources as well as spurring impressive academic performances. The ministry has cited various problems that it associates with the low academic performances in the secondary schools. Insecurity, poverty, poor learning environment and cultural hindrances are some of the problems that the ministry ties to poor performances
 Meanwhile, Matiangi has added that they have plans to revamp the form 1 selection process. The latest being the introduction of county schools as the recipients of admission letters digitally.
  According to the ministry, 10,738 candidates who garnered 400 marks and above will be admitted to the national schools. Each sub county will produce top 5 girls and 5 boys to join  the national schools.
 The cabinet secretary attributes this move to the process of affirmative action that the government uses to give all students equal chances regardless of their backgrounds. The ministry has also announced over 1M vacancies for form 1 students across various schools, as opening date is fixed on January 9.
  
  
  
