President Uhuru Kenyatta has reiterated the Government’s commitment to promoting mechanised farming to increase productivity.
 The President said the Government would work with farmers to boost food security and increase household incomes. 
 ALSO READ:

NASA forms task force on People’s Assembly

 He was speaking while launching the 64th World Ploughing Contest at Egerton University’s Ngongongeri farm in Nakuru.
 President Uhuru said his administration was keen to achieve world class standards in agricultural practices. 




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “I have seen modern machines used in other countries which are currently not in Kenya. That explains why we are not effectively competing with the rest of the world. My government is committed to bridging this gap and assist farmers adopt technology in their practices,” he said.
 The competition is sponsored by the World Ploughing Organisation.
 The President said  the competition has served as an eye-opener for the local farmers and the government. “The Kenyan farmers have a lot to learn from this competition. Agriculture is the backbone of our economy and through such contests we are able to learn of  new technologies to boost production,” he said
 Competition
 World Ploughing Organisation Chairman James Miller said the competition has tremendously grown over the years and continued to foster better ploughing techniques across participating countries.
 “As much as these countries are competing, much has been achieved in the agricultural sector where competitors pass the skills to farmers in affiliated countries,” Mr Miller said. 
 ALSO READ:

County passes People's Assembly bill

 Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Willy Bett reiterated on the need to commercialise the sector, saying mechanisation of farm activities and value addition of farm produce is the next frontier in food production.
 “Through the ministry, we will borrow the technology being used by other countries whose weather is less favorable than ours,” said Bett.
