The Kenya Urban Roads Authority (Kura) has cautioned those who have built houses on road reserves in Thika to prepare for demolitions.
 The move will pave way for the construction of two by-passes. 
 ALSO READ:

Squabbles leave roads in bad shape

 Speaking during a stakeholders forum at Kiang’ombe Estate in Thika, Kura officials said the houses built on road reserves would be brought down if the owners fail to clear them.
 Kura official Josiah Mwangi said they would give a notice to owners of structures on public land.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “Those who have built on road corridors will have to remove them at their own cost. There will be no compensation. We will soon issue formal notices to them after the survey works are done. It will be painful but necessary,” said Mwangi.
 During the stakeholders meeting, it emerged houses had allegedly been built on a road reserve from British American Tobacco to Corner One in Kiganjo where one of the by-passes is meant to pass.
 Early next year
 The Government has set aside Sh1.5 billion for the construction of two by-passes in Thika town. Their construction is set to commence early next year.
 The first phase will see the 10km by-pass starting from Garissa Road through Kivulini-Kisii Estate-Kiganjo-Athena-Witeithie to Thika Super highway constructed.
 The second phase will see the 15km from Kenyatta Highway through Munene Industries-UTI-Pilot-Umoja-Kenyatta leather to Garissa Road put up.
 Thika MP Patrick Wainaina commended the Government for setting aside the budget to construct the two by-passes, saying they were long overdue. Mr Wainaina the two roads will help open up Kiambu County’s main industrial hub, Thika.
 Local contractors
 He however called on the State to ensure a local firm was awarded the tender to promote Kenyan contractors.
 Residents who spoke during the forum said they supported the project, which they said would reduce the perennial traffic jam in the area.
 They called on the Government to demolish the houses to pave way for the project. Kura officials said contractors would give priority to the local community in terms of jobs and supplies.
 dmaichuhie@standardmedi.co.ke
