National Super Alliance (NASA) now says Raila Odinga’s swearing in on December 12 will be lawful and may help prevent further polarization in the country by giving Kenyans hope for electoral justice.
 According to the opposition, Raila’s swearing in will also give new impetus for the People’s Assembly to guide county assemblies in urgently addressing a number of pressing economic and justice issues that will provide material benefits to Kenyans. 
 ALSO READ:

Oathing Raila will thrust country into a legal quagmire; don’t

 “Kenya has never been as polarized as it has been the last few months. It’s polarized because both the August and October elections were stolen, and because of a host of other murderous actions by this regime that have inflamed millions,” read part of the NASA statement to newsrooms Wednesday afternoon.
 NASA insists that the Jubilee government has not taken any action to lower the political temperatures being witnessed in the country.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “Indeed, even after the Supreme Court validated his 26 October win and again as he was being sworn in last week, he unleashed the police, who killed more than two dozen lawful protesters.”
 According to the opposition, Raila has always been open to a national dialogue. This they say was even evident before the August general election when he sought to ensure it would be credibly done, but the government had no interest in the dialogue nor in holding an honest election.
 “Mr Raila Odinga is holding the country together through his commitment to pursuing constitutional and peaceful means for resolving issues and crimes against Kenyans that have brought us to this sorry and explosive pass. The stolen elections apart, these have included the brutal torture and killing of IEBC IT chief Chris Msando and the intimidation of the entire Commission; the abuse and threats against Supreme Court justices; and the killing of scores of unarmed Kenyans lawfully protesting these crimes.”
 The NASA leader had earlier declared that he would be sworn in on December 12 during Jamhuri Day celebrations
 NASA has written to eleven Governors of counties that passed the people’s assembly motion, requesting for venue for Raila Odinga’s swearing in that is scheduled for December 12.
 
 ALSO READ:

Mutahi Ngunyi: David Ndii is being used by Raila

