Former Funyula MP Paul Otuoma yesterday told the court that he did not file a petition against Governor Sospeter Ojaamong's victory since he was still in shock.
 Appearing before Justice Kiare Waweru in a case where his (Otuoma's) chief agent, Peter Odima, is challenging Ojaamong's victory in August 8 elections, the former lawmaker told the court that he felt that injustices that had been committed against him, which cost him the governor's seat. 
 ALSO READ:

Official confirms public hospitals have enough drugs

 Mr Otuoma was responding to Ojaamong's lawyer, Otiende Amollo, who wanted to know why he did not file the petition himself.
 Otuoma told Justice Waweru that he did not witness Governor Ojaamong bribing voters during campaigns. He further testified that he did not see votes being manipulated in favour of his opponent.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 He was testifying as key witness for the petitioner, Mr Odima, who wants the court to invalidate Ojaamong's election.
 Lawyer Otiende Amollo had sought to know from Otuoma if he witnessed first-hand all the allegations leveled against Ojaamong in the case.
 Otuoma said he relied on his 760 agents deployed across polling stations in the county.
 He admitted that during the violence that occurred in Bulemia Jua Kali, a few days to the August 8 polls, he was supposed to be in Funyula and not in Butula.
 At the time, supporters of Otuoma and Ojaamong clashed over a meeting venue in Butula.
 During the hearing, it emerged Otuoma did not sign his agents' letters of appointments in person. But he defended himself, saying the letters were bulky and due to time constraints, he delegated the responsibility of signing them. 
 ALSO READ:

Paul Otuoma: Raila has nothing to offer in terms of development

 Otuoma said he could not determine if his votes were subtracted and those of Ojaamong' inflated. He did not pinpoint polling stations where he claimed his agents were denied access or identify those who were barred.
