The push for national dialogue to resolve political issues that always resurface during elections cannot be buried and forgotten. Most Kenyans are in agreement that the country is deeply divided along ethnic and political lines and there is need to look for a remedy to this sorry situation.
 During the campaigns, President Uhuru Kenyatta acknowledged this division but emphatically stated that he was open to dialogue only after the repeat presidential election was concluded. On his part, the NASA leader Raila Odinga has been calling for dialogue, but firmly stating that the talks should focus on electoral justice. It is clear the two leaders are in agreement on the need for dialogue but there are still significant differences on what the agenda of the engagement should be. 
 ALSO READ:

David Ndii speaks out first time since his release from custody 

 Equally, Kenya’s development partners such as United States have also asked President Kenyatta and Raila to enter into dialogue to resolve the contentious issues dividing the country. But the nagging question in many Kenyans' minds is what sort of dialogue the country should hold.
 First, it is imperative to appreciate that dialogue is a democratic method aimed at resolving problems through mutual understanding and concessions, rather than through the unilateral imposition of one side’s views and interests.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Also, democracy as a system of government has a framework for organised and continuous dialogue through established institutions. In the Kenyan context, dialogue should not be used as a tool to take the place of democracy but rather to complements it. In a democracy such as ours, there is always bound to be a winner and loser in any election, starting with the MCA all the way to the presidential poll.
 The push for dialogue is unique in that unlike in 2007/08 post-election violence where it was the best tool to end the conflict that had left over 1,200 people dead, Kenya is not in such circumstances warranting intervention by international mediators.
 Already, the Supreme Court validated Kenyatta’s victory and his swearing in gave him the mandate to run the country. In my view, the country should adopt inter-party dialogue which is best handled in Parliament as it has representatives from across the country. Parliaments the world over facilitate dialogue for the good of the people. The Kenyan Parliament has expressed its readiness to facilitate the process which must be within the confines of the Constitution and the law.
 The Constitution allows for public participation. Parliament should therefore frame the issues raised and then seek solutions from Kenyans through public participation. Jubilee Party and NASA are well represented in Parliament and we need very good reasons for seeking complementary spaces for holding dialogue outside the democratic institutions.
 Those rooting for dialogue are convinced that it is the best remedy for stopping the ugly contest of might between Raila’s supporters and the police during demonstrations. Lives have been lost and property destroyed during the demonstrations and all Kenyans want to see an end to these ugly incidents. The first focus should be to revisit the Constitution for it to accommodate the top losing presidential candidate and his running mate by establishing the post of the Official Leader of the Opposition and deputy.
 The talks should also focus on how to facilitate the opposition to hold the government of the day to account. By holding the government to account, the opposition will ensure not only development but also fair distribution of resources. The view that some communities are being left out in the sharing of the national cake is a mistaken belief as the Constitution provides a formula for revenue sharing across all 47 counties. 
 ALSO READ:

NASA’s options for swearing in Kalonzo

 NASA should focus on serving its democratic role of pointing out the flaws of the ruling party and show alternative leadership. From this, voters may opt to entrust the country’s leadership in their hands come 2022. Counties and the Constitution guarantee that the nation has a mechanism which guarantees fair distribution of resources and equity within the nation. The Constitution guarantees that women and all marginalised groups are included, and the discussion should therefore be about implementation.
 NASA must hold Jubilee to account on its completion of its game-changing projects, elimination of key constraints that drive up the cost of living and greater access to opportunities, especially for the youth. The national discussion should not be held to distribute government jobs or meet the political interests of individuals.
 - The writer is the Farmers Party leader
