Fourteen people have died in a grisly road accident at Moinonin area along Marigat-Loruk Road in Baringo County on Saturday afternoon.
 According to witnesses, the vehicle belonging the Administration Police veered off the road and rolled several times killing fourteen people who had boarded the truck to Kapedo from Marigat town. 
 ALSO READ:

Kenya’s 14 kilometers of death

 Confirming the accident, Baringo AP Commandant Mr Robinson Ndiwa said the vehicle was heading back to Kapedo but carried some civilians along the way.
 On board were five Administration Policemen who sustained injuries. They were rushed to Kabarnet Hospital by Military personnel who were using the route.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Among those who died on spot included thirteen adults and a minor.
 “The accident involved AP vehicle that was coming from Marigat heading to Kapedo killing fourteen on spot,” said Ndiwa.
 He said Kenya Defense Force (KDF) soldiers rushed at the scene after the accident was reported and took those who were injured to the hospital where they are receiving treatment.
 However, Ndiwa could not establish the exact number of civilians who were on board when the accident happened.
 "We have not established people on board because we are told we had several children whose number was not established now that the evacuation was conducted by KDF soldiers," he said.
 Bodies of those deceased were taken to Kabarnet hospital morgue for identification and postmortem. 
 ALSO READ:

Another accident in Salgaa claims life

 According to the commandant, the civilians requested the AP officers to give them a ride to Kapedo, because of lack of public transport along that route.
 "It is normal for civilians in this area to hike a ride on government vehicles especially those for security personnel because of the insecurity in the region and lack of public transport," the officer said.
 The lorry was also ferrying various food items and personal belongings for the civilians.
