A Governor affiliated to the National Super Aliance (NASA) has dared police to apprehend Opposition leader Raila Odinga.
 Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga indicated that police have to arrest Raila’s supporters before getting to him (Raila) during the swearing-in on Tuesday. 
 ALSO READ:

Wait for dialogue with Ruto in 2022, Uhuru tells Raila

 “I am waiting to see how the paltry 2,000 police officers will arrest 10 million Raila’s supporters that will attend his inauguration,” said Rasanga.
 The Governor spoke on Saturday in Siaya County during a burial service of Caroline Oduor who was allegedly shot by police at Baba Dogo, Nairobi.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Attorney-General (AG) Githu Muigai warned NASA against swearing-in the former PM as the ‘people’s president’ on Jamhuri Day.
 Prof Muigai indicated on Thursday (7/12/17) the Government would prevent any breach of the rule of law and the Constitution.
 “A swearing in of any person not lawfully declared to have won an election by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) and that is not done by the Chief Justice of the Republic of Kenya is null and void ab initio.
 “The criminal law of the Republic of Kenya stipulates that this sort of process is high treason. It is high treason by the persons involved and any other person facilitating that process,” Muigai said.
 United States had also warned that the plan by NASA would be in contravention of the law.
 “The United States also urges opposition leaders to work within Kenya’s laws to pursue the reforms they seek and to avoid extra-constitutional actions such as the proposed “inauguration ceremony” on December 12,” a statement from the Embassy read. 
 ALSO READ:

Raila: The gains we made are slowly being eroded

 Raila condemned western envoys for meddling in Kenya’s political affairs while turning their back on police brutality.
 “Our friends can give us advice, give the advice in private. Do not come and shout at us and tell us we are going to violate the Constitution. Which Constitution my foot!” an agitated Raila said.
 The Opposition chief spoke at City Mortuary in Nairobi where the NASA brigade had gathered to condole with families of 16 deceased victims of alleged police brutality.
 
  
