President Uhuru Kenyatta on Saturday dismissed calls for any form of dialogue on electoral reforms with National Super Alliance (NASA) leaders saying time for politics is over and leaders must now focus to deliver development promises to Kenyans.
 Speaking during the burial of Susan Chege, mother of Muranga County Women Representative Sabina Chege, the President urged NASA leaders to wait until 2022 to negotiate with Deputy President William Ruto on the matter as Kenyans are tired of the endless political talks. 
 ALSO READ:

NASA’s options for swearing in Kalonzo

  “The Opposition leaders should wait for the next campaign season for any other type of dialogue and during that time the leader they will negotiate with will be Deputy President William Ruto, “Uhuru said.
 The Head of State said he is only ready for talks on how to develop Kenya and bring progress to the country.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “The dialogue we are interested in now is the dialogue that transforms lives and brings development. On the other one of talking politics wait for 2022 and you will dialogue with William,” he added.
 NASA had set out demands it wants met by President Uhuru and his government before they can engage in any meaningful talks ahead of the swearing-in of Raila Odinga as the People’s Assembly President on Tuesday.
 They told diplomats who met them at Raila’s Capitol Hill offices on Friday that they were also neither interested in a coalition government nor any other form of power-sharing.
 “We demanded that any meeting must be centered on electoral justice for meaningful negotiations to take place between Jubilee and NASA,” said one of the leaders who attended the meeting.
 The diplomats came with messages from leaders of their respective countries and asked NASA to call off the planned swearing-in of Raila to allow time for dialogue saying Uhuru was ready for talks.
 
 ALSO READ:

Foreign envoys praise President Uhuru for commitment to rule of law

