National Super Alliance (NASA) legislators were yesterday divided over the list of its nominees to the Parliamentary Service Commission (PSC).
 This prompted a heated debate on the floor of the National Assembly just as was the case when the coalition presented its leadership list. 
 ALSO READ:

Kenya's nine EALA MPs to be named today

 A section of MPs protested the three nominees listed to take up their places in the commission.
 The commission, chaired by the Speaker, handles the welfare of legislators and runs affairs of Parliament.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 The list attracted opposition soon the Notice of Motion on its approval was given by Majority Leader Aden Duale.
 Borabu MP Ben Momanyi termed the list unconstitutionality claiming his Wiper party had been overlooked.
 Duale had listed ODM’s Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), Homabay Women Representative Gladys Wanga, also of ODM and Vihiga Senator George Khaniri as NASA’s representatives to the Commission.
 Jubilee's are Naomi Shaban and Adan Keynan, from the National Assembly and senators Aaron Cheruiyot and Beth Mugo.
 Parliamentary party
 But Momanyi said while Wiper qualified as a parliamentary party, by virtue of commanding at least five per cent of the house membership, it had been left out of the list, arguing it was a violation of the Constitution. 
 ALSO READ:

DP Ruto: We will bring both friend and foe on board

 “Under this law, Wiper has a right to demand a slot in the PSC. We cannot have a situation where two people decide these positions, and do so in disregard of the coalition agreement that guides NASA,” said Momanyi.
 Duale said urged the House to protect Wiper from 'unfair treatment' it was getting from ODM. He said Wiper qualifies for a slot in the Commission.
 “We cannot bring party dictatorship to the floor of the House. This is a serious constitutional issue that has been raised and we should not sit back when one party is being suffocated by its bigger brother,” said Duale.
 Duale asked Speaker Justin Muturi to protect Wiper from being denied its slot in the PSC.
 “We are asking you to look at the constitutional issue raised and declare that a party known as Wiper, which is a parliamentary party as per our definition in the standing orders, needs to be represented in the Commission,” he said yesterday.
