Kabarak University has joined the ranks of local private universities to get ISO certification.
 The university yesterday celebrated the two-year journey towards realising the dream that saw the university attain the requirements by the Kenya Bureau of Standards (Kebs). 
 ALSO READ:

Why phasing out toxic paints should be a priority in Kenya

 "Attaining the ISO 9001:2015 was not a walk in the park. This is a major accomplishment for the university," said Vice Chancellor Henry Kiplagat on Thursday.
 Prof Kiplagat said the certification comes with national and international recognition and promised improvement in the university's operations.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 He said the ISO certification process involved quality management systems, management systems awareness, and documentation of procedures.
 The VC said although Kabarak implemented the quality management systems, it had to wait for Kebs to approve the process.
 Be associated
 Kebs Quality Assurance and Inspection Director Erick Chesire, who presented the certificate to the university yesterday, said the bureau was proud to be associated with Kabarak.
 The certificate, according to Mr Chesire, allows the university to demonstrate its commitment to best practice, efficiency, and sustainability, an indication that as an institution, excellence comes first.
 “The Kebs management is proud to be associated with Kabarak. This certification allows the university to demonstrate its commitment to best practice, efficiency, and sustainability,” said Chesire.
 The director said just like any other institution, Kabarak University was subject to vigorous processes to ensure it operations conform to the required standards.
 After the certification, Kabarak entered into a three-year contractual agreement with Kebs, which will monitor its operations.
 Dr John Kibosia, a University Governing Council member who represented the chancellor, retired President Daniel Arap Moi, and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, said the institution is committed to keeping high standards.
