 
 Private schools in the county outshone public institutions in the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) exam, whose results were released on Tuesday, November 21. 
 ALSO READ:

Criminal cases in Kenya this year: Which areas deserve the crown?

 Sun and Shield Academy, a private school, posted impressive results in the exam with 22 out of 42 registered candidates scoring above 400 marks out of the possible 500.
 The school’s mean score improved from 388.82 last year to 393.14 this year, making it one of the top performers in the Rift Valley.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Among the best performers were Sammy Kemboi, who scored 433, Shawn Kipkoech (431) Collins Kibet (427) Ian Kipchumba (423) and Cafu Kitti (422).
 There was celebration at the school as teachers welcomed good performance, saying candidates were hardworking and disciplined.
 Velma Hazel Balongo, the top girl from the school, said teachers helped her improve on the subjects she was not performing well, a move that contributed to her good score.
 The candidate said she is looking forward to join The Kenya High School.
 “Kenya High is a school I wish to associate myself with because of its top performance and disciplined students,” said the candidate.
 Balongo said she aspire to be a doctor to enable her save lives. 
 ALSO READ:

Top five business risks for East African market

 Her father Wilson Balongo said her daughter was dedicated to her academics besides being disciplined.
 “My daughter has been very committed with school work and I am happy she has made me a proud father,” said Mr Balongo.
 Another candidate, Darlene Jepchirchir who scored 407 marks, said she would like to become a fashion designer for her love for fashion.
 Jepchirchir who is looking forward to joining Mary Hill Girls in Thika, said she loves fashion and would like to be among best fashion designers in the country.
 The school head teacher, Isaiah Kagogo, attributed the performance to high discipline and cooperation among teachers, students and parents.
 Mr Kagogo said team work among all education players helped teachers to complete syllabus on time that provided learners with ample revision time.
 “Teamwork contributed to good performance because each individual played their part,” said the head teacher. 
 ALSO READ:

Vihiga Governor survives election petition

 School Director Gladys Jerobon Kiptiony said unlike other schools where the majority of learners are taught how to pass exams, the school creates a friendly environment for all pupils.
  
 “This is a friendly school that gives an opportunity to all learners to prosper not only in academics but to mold them into productive individuals,” said Dr Kiptiony.
 Another school, St Gabriel Mission School, also celebrated their results after they registered a mean score of 389, an improvement from 379 last year.
 The school had 45 candidates, out of which, six registered more than 400 marks. Joy Chege, 13, was the top candidate at the school, with 435 marks.
 She said she would like to join Kenya High School and later become a surgeon. Kagaki Schools in Rongai sub-county also posted impressive results with over 13 pupils scoring above 400 marks.
 Other best schools include Moi Primary Kabarak, Christ the King, St Mary’s Girls Primary, Gilgil Hills and St Peter’s Elite School in Gilgil. 
