NAIROBI, KENYA; The transport authority will as from next month roll out the much anticipated smart driving licences.
 National Transport Safety Authority (NTSA) is also testing a new technology to link vehicle number plates to driving licences in a bid to reduce road accidents.  
 ALSO READ:

Do you think Kenya's road safety has improved under NTSA?

 On Sunday, Nyanza regional manager Ezekiel Koech said the new technology is aimed at helping identify rogue drivers.
 Mr Koech, who was speaking at the Kisumu bus park after a vehicle inspection operation, said the smart driving licences will be a game changer in the fight to reduce road carnage.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “We are at the testing stage and are hoping that by December next year, all motorists will be having the smart driving licences,” he said.
 “The process of rolling it out will begin early next year in January,” Koech added.
 The new digital driving licence will contain a driver's history and will also have points.
  Computer chip
 They are also embedded with a secure computer chip containing the holder's information, which are only readable using special electronic gadgets to be owned and managed by NTSA officials.
 The officer accused motorists of refusing to abide by traffic laws. He noted that attacks on NTSA officials were also on the rise in the region, with drivers also tampering with speed governors. 
 ALSO READ:

Design flaws on Outer Ring road put pedestrians at risk

 “We have had cases where our officers have been stoned by rogue motorists and this must stop,” he said.
 Regional Traffic and Enforcement Officer Andrew Naibei urged road users to be careful during the festive season.
 “We will do more inspections and put up more measures to ensure that our roads are safe because we are not happy when we see lives lost,” said Mr Naibei.
 Meanwhile, Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria has promised to take necessary action to curb accidents along the Nakuru-Eldoret highway.
 Blood spillage
 Mr Kuria, who is also the deputy chair of the Roads and Infrastructure parliamentary committee, said he had lost several friends along the route and would strive to curb road crashes on that route.
 “...I promise the blood spillage will come to an end,” said Kuria. 
 ALSO READ:

Criminals have taken over Boda boda sector, says official

 The legislator said he would do all it takes to have a dual carriage built. The committee, he said, would summon NTSA officers and other stakeholders in the transport industry in January 2018 to discuss the way forward.
 Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika called on the church to seek divine intervention over the alarming increase in road accidents.
