Fishmongers at Kilifi’s old ferry have denied allegations levelled against fishermen from Pemba and Zanzibar operating in the area. The foreign fishermen have been accused of exploiting local women and also using illegal fishing gear.
 The fishmongers said local fishermen were uncomfortable with the foreigners because they do not demand sex in exchange for fish. 
 ALSO READ:

Foreigners cash out Sh34.2 billion from NSE in 3 months

 Miriam Kitsao said sexual abuse from the local fishermen had become the norm, especially during high tide when fish become scarce.
 She said the sex-for-fish barter trade had seen many women get infected with HIV or quit fish business to seek alternative ways of earning a living.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “We are going through a lot of torture from our own fishermen who demandsex before they can sell you fish. Also, they do not have the best equipment to go to the deep sea and get enough fish for every one of us,” said Kitsao.
 She added: Foreign fishermen came to relieve us from the stress caused by our own fishermen. Now our fishermen don’t want them because they know that their evils will be exposed."
 Kitsao said that widows and single mothers are among those who sell fish to raise their families.
 “Some women have been banned from getting fish because they refused to be used sexually by our local fishermen,” she claimed.
 Illegal fishing
 But Jonathan Kaingu, a local fisherman, said foreigners were flooding the waters with illegal fishing equipment, making it had for the locals to get the best catch.
 “The foreign fishermen are illegally in our waters and we do not need them because they use ring net which catches even the young fish that cannot be consumed. Also their equipment are strong that they interfere with our dhows and canoes,” said Mr Kaingu.
 He said local fishermen want a reduction in the number of foreign fishermen.
 Fish vendor Clarice Kiti aka Kanzeki said she hires foreign fishermen during the high season to boost her business, which is always low during high tide that are witnessed annually from January to September.
 “Most women survive on loans which are supposed to be cleared no matter the challenges,” said Kiti.
