Two court officials in Nyeri were arrested by the anti-graft agency for allegedly soliciting a bribe of Sh 25,000 from a litigant.
 Sources at Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) told the Standard, the detectives busted the two employees, last week at Karatina law courts upon receiving the money. 
 ALSO READ:

Judge warns on frustrating Judiciary

 The employee, one Assistant Executive Officer at Karatina Law Court Registry and a clerk had allegedly promised to bail out the suspect, who was arrested and charged with offences of breaking and stealing.
 “The matter was reported to EACC Nyeri Central Region for assistance causing investigation to start which resulted into the arrest of the two employees upon receiving a bribe of Sh 25, 000,” source at EACC told the Standard yesterday.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 The employees according to the anti-graft agency are alleged to have demanded the Sh 25,000 by promising the suspect that they would facilitate the withdrawal of the case.
 EACC Regional Director Jackson Mue said a further Sh 47,000 was also recovered from the Court Clerk who claimed the money belonged to the Assistant executive officer.
 Mue said the amount was concealed in a handbag and is suspected to be proceeds of corruption, noting investigation is ongoing to establish circumstance under which the money was given out.
 He said the Executive Officer and the Court Clerk were arrested at the court premises on November 30 and later processed at EACC central office.
 “They were later booked at Nyeri Central Police Station where they were released on cash bail of Sh 50,000/ each and are set to appear in Courts upon completion of investigation. He said the officials will be charged with various offenses and engaging in corruption by demanding and receiving bribes from members of the public seeking services at the law court.
 In December last year, a senior support staff at Mukurweini Law Courts was arraigned in court after he was accused of soliciting a Sh1, 500 bribe. 
 ALSO READ:

Supreme Court upholds re-election of President Uhuru

 Josphat Gitonga was accused that on December 14, at Kiahugu bus stage, being an employee of Judicial Service Commission, he solicited for a bribe from Monicah Wangari.
 This was alleged to be an inducement for him to release court proceedings to enable Wangari to file an appeal at the High Court.
 sgichure@Standardmedia.co.ke
