A 29-year-old man committed suicide following the arrest of his wife and mother at Shitirira village in Malava constituency, on Saturday.
 Wycliffe Anunda’s body was discovered in his kitchen moments after he hanged himself using a rope. 
 ALSO READ:

Football: County to sponsor Homeboyz

 His brother, Manoah Wangusi said the deceased could not come to terms with the arrest.
 “We went to Kakamega GK prison to see his wife and our mother but he was nowhere to be seen after our visit,” said Mr Wangusi.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 He said the two were put in police custody over accusations of theft.
 “One of his daughters discovered the body when she went to open the door for the chicken.”
 Area Chief Ernest Mmasava has confirmed the incident.  “The reality of having both his mother and wife behind bars might have overwhelmed him,” the chief said.
 The body has been taken to Webuye hospital mortuary.
 Elsewhere in Navakholo, police are holding a 25-year-old man for allegedly killing his wife over infidelity.
 The suspect, Alex Kenyatta from Shinoyi village, confessed to have murdered the wife after sensing she was cheating on him. 
 ALSO READ:

Uganda to lock horns with Burundi in Cecafa Cup match day two

 “We had misunderstandings and out of anger, I clobbered her to death,” the suspect said.
 A relative said the couple had picked a quarrel over a phone call before the matter degenerated into physical confrontation.
 “The wife had received a call from a local M-Pesa owner, the same man is said to be having an illicit love with her,” one of the residents told The Standard.
 Police have retrieved the woman's mutilated body from river Sasala where it had been dumped by the suspect.
 He was smoked out of his hideout at Shisiru trading centre by an angry mob that was baying for his blood but police intervened.
 Lurambi AP commander, Inspector Dennis Lukorito commended residents for cooperating with the police.
 “People were quick to act and helped us in looking for the suspect, he will be assisting us with further investigation before being arraigned in court," he said. 
 ALSO READ:

Kenya hits 2 past Rwanda to win CECAFA Senior Challenge Opener

