 Mwende Gatabaki, the  wife of NASA strategist David Ndii, is accusing the Jubilee Government  of harassing her husband who was arrested on Sunday night from his Leopard Beach Resort  Hotel room in Kwale County and driven to Nairobi.
 Speaking during a press briefing Monday morning in Mombasa, Mrs Ndii said her husband was not a criminal and had not done anything wrong to warrant his arrest. 
 ALSO READ:

Cecafa challenge: CECAFA starts as Raila graces the event

 She said President Uhuru Kenyatta must stand or the truth because  he made a special request to the head of the African Development Bank in 2014 requesting for her  return to Kenya  to develop a database that would be a single source of the truth for the government.
 She said that was after the 2013 Westgate terror attack when the government was keen on knowing who was who in Kenya and their backgrounds.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 She told of  how she has contributed widely in the development of the presidential digital transformation of  the government.
 “President of Kenya, Uhuru Kenyatta is the one who sent a special request to the President of African Development Bank requesting for me to come and champion the presidential digital transformation of government, which was his project after the attack on Westgate and he called it a single source of truth,” she said.
 She said the project was meant to provide a database with all people in Kenya, land,what they owned, all the companies in Kenya and their directors.
 “I want to ask the President: Where is that gentleman, who  in 2014, asked me to come and create a single source of truth to create transparency in Kenya?”
 Mrs Ndii, who said she was with her husband in a hotel room during the arrest, was disappointed when police lied to her that they had taken Dr Ndii to Diani Police Station but she did not find him when she went there a few minutes later.
 She said the police went to their hotel room  to search for Dr. Ndii’s laptop with an aim of getting information related to NASA plans and schedules. 
 ALSO READ:

ANC to decide its fate in NASA this week

 According to Mrs Ndii, they were in in Diani for a family event.
 Dr Ndii was recently appointed to lead a six member team to run the People’s Assembly National Steering Committee to  push for electoral reforms.
