The Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Keriako Tobiko has ordered the release of National Super Alliance (NASA) strategist and economist David Ndii.
 Mr Tobiko, ordered the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) on Monday to release Mr Ndii on police bond pending investigations. 
 ALSO READ:

Ndii’s wife to the President: Release my husband

 Further, the DPP directed that once investigations are completed, the resultant inquiry file be forwarded to the National Prosecution Authority for appropriate directions.
 Ndii’s wife, Mwende Gatabaki, asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to order the release her husband on Monday.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 An incensed Mwende recounted how seven police officers, two of whom were armed, stormed into their hotel room on Sunday evening and demanded to search their baggage.
 Mwende was at first reluctant and demanded a search warrant from the officers, which demand was vaguely turned down before complying.
  “The police had to write the search warrant three times because they kept on correcting it. At some point they were referring to me as ‘suspect,'' said Mwende.
 The renowned economist was at Leopard Beach Hotel in Kwale at the time of his apprehension.
 Ndii was appointed by NASA coalition to head the People’s Assembly National Steering Committee on Friday (December 1) among other six leaders.
 The team will guide and facilitate various programs that will be centre of NASA’s agenda amongst other duties, according to former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale. 
 ALSO READ:

Policing team boss warns Raila’s swearing in will trigger chaos

 The taskforce will also look into the systemic governance weaknesses that have precipitated the unfolding political impasse, said the alliance.
 The team comprises; Judy Sijeny, Hamida Kibwana, Dr Mutakha Kangu, Oduor Ong’wen, Koitamet ole Kina and former East African Legislative Assembly MP Peter Mathuki.
 Opposition leader Raila Odinga said in October the People’s Assembly would be a broad-based forum consisting of elected leaders and the leadership of other sectors of society in particular workers, civil society, religious leaders, women, youth and economic interest groups.
 
