
 Snake attacks remain a thorn in the flesh to residents of Kerio valley, which harbours some of the deadliest reptiles. 
 ALSO READ:

New charges for Mombasa witchcraft drama six

 At least two snake attack cases are reported in the region weekly, some fatal while others leave survivors with life-long injuries.
 The situation has been worsened by the onset of dry spell in the region where the slithering reptiles are reported to invade homes in search of water.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 The rocky terrain and shrubland make a perfect habitat for the deadly black and green Mamba, Puff Adder and several species of Cobra.
 Pythons are also there but have not been reported to attack humans.
 Peris Kosgei, a widow, recollects how her husband Daniel was last week killed by a snake while constructing a granary at his home.
 “My husband died as he was being rushed to a nearby health facility,” said Mrs Kosgei.
 Deadly attack
 Another snake bite victim, Celestine Kipruto, survived a deadly attack by a spitting cobra at her Kabokbok home.
 “It was around six in the evening when I was preparing supper for my family. I reached for a pot to get water and suddenly felt some fluid sprayed on my face,” narrated Ms Kipruto.
 She said three snakes had slithered into her home in the past week but luckily, nobody had been attacked because she managed to kill them.
 “Here, we have to find ways to survive. Our homes are no longer safe and at night, we leave out tins with water for the reptiles to stop them entering our houses,” she said.
 Residents are now calling for stocking of anti-venom vaccines in all health facilities in the area to avert further loss of life.
 “Our predicament is worsened by lack of anti-venom in our health facilities which has led to fatalities or amputation of limbs because of delayed treatment,” said Stephen Cheruiyot.
 County Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS) warden John Ngalia said they had more than 110 cases waiting for compensation, adding the worst-hit areas were Kerio Valley and the Elgeyo escarpment.
 “Sadly, we lost eight people to snake bites last year,” said Mr Ngalia.
