After a long electioneering period and deduction of their salaries, last weeks’ recess was a time to reap for the legislators.
 This was evident in Parliament from December 7 to Wednesday evening and the better part of Thursday this week, when MPs openly demanded for their share from the East African Legislative Assembly (EALA) nominees, who were on a vote hunting spree. 
 ALSO READ:

Hefty pay: 'Rogue' MPs at it again

 A Cabinet Secretary fronting one of the candidates was spotted at Parliament buildings campaigning among his former colleagues while a governor pitched tent there too, supervising how the MPs took their ‘share’ from his candidate.
 Jubilee and the National Super Alliance (NASA) MPs put aside their political differences for the ‘common good’, justifying their actions saying their meager pay could not sustain their families and constituents.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 For the first time, money was carried in handbags and dished out openly to legislators who in turn disclosed the amount given without any shame.
 Each was paid based on their perceived influence. The amount they took could be in the tune of more than Sh30 million.
 The MPs confided to journalists how some EALA candidates were generous, while others were stingy and would not get their votes.
 Seeking positions
 “We also campaigned. Our voters did not want to hear anything without facilitating them. The same applies to those seeking positions in House committees and the Parliamentary Service Commission (PSC). Good words are not enough,” said an MP who declined to be named.
 Another one said: “MPs may not admit it but the truth is, some of us will die of debts. We borrowed a lot during campaigns and now it’s payback time. We cannot even go to the constituencies, the demands outweigh what we earn.” 
 ALSO READ:

Public interest should supersede MPs personal agenda

 On December 8, one candidate and a governor made a surprise visit to Parliament and all MPs found at the lounge were asked to line up and were paid Sh20,000 each.
 “It didn’t matter which side of the coalition you come from. Some of us had been stranded and used Uber taxi service to work. The money really helped,” said an MP from North Eastern.
 A prominent CS also lobbied for one of the EALA nominees and is reported to have parted with a substantial amount of money. “The CS is a good man. He has been here and knows how to stay with us. We can’t disappoint him. His presence means a lot especially at this time,” said a senator.
 MPs viewed to be turncoats were even recorded video as they received their shares. But those who oiled their colleagues’ palms were those from North Eastern.
 They came together and were very generous to colleagues after holding harambees to facilitate their candidates.
 However, for the PSC and House committees’ leadership, the MPs have vowed to elect those who ‘campaign’ and not those fronted by parties starting tomorrow.
 Since security committee leaders get government vehicles and other incentives and are categorised in the same position as CSs, there will likely be a tight competition for the seats. 
 ALSO READ:

High court temporarily stops SRC from slashing MPs salaries

 Prestigious committees
 Some are fighting to be considered for prestigious committees such as the Public Accounts Committee (PAC), Public Investment Committee (PIC), Transport, Energy, Sports, Labour, and Lands committees, among others.
 They even say some committees such Cohesion are suitable for retirees who are no longer interested in ‘oil’.
 In the Senate, there is a disquiet over committee membership, which forced Jubilee to call for calm as they sort out the matter.
 Wiper Party even tabled the NASA coalition’s agreement in the National Assembly in a bid to push for a slot in the PSC, which is viewed as a ‘land mine’ for legislators.
