
 You have had a seemingly successful career. Your job is not that bad and even if it is, it is not something you cannot handle. However, you feel that your talent, skills and efforts will be better-utilised somewhere else. Or, you have spent your time and money on your current career but deep down, your interests lie somewhere else. 
 ALSO READ:

Blogger: I make Sh5,000 for each online post

 Well, this could be an indication that it is time to change your career to something more enjoyable. Moving to something more fulfilling could be the fire you need to keep you going and to help you enjoy your career.
 But, before you take that leap of faith, here are BrighterMonday’s tips to help you increase your chances of success.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Many people change their careers just because they dislike their bosses or the companies they currently work for. Well, the first step is to determine just what it is that you dislike. Is it your job or the entire career? If it is your job, then you should look for another one. However, if the entire career just does not suit you, then it is time to rework that CV and move to a career that suits you.
 To make this easier, make a list of what you like doing and what you would rather not do. This should be inclusive of things you do at work and in your free time. If your likes lean towards a certain career path, consider changing lanes. Remember, doing a job that you are passionate about is the first step towards success.  
 2.Conduct a thorough research about ideal careers
 Now that you know your passion, conduct a detailed research about ideal career paths matching your passion. For example, if you realize you are good in mathematics and enjoy calculations, you might realize that it is time to move to accounting.
 Do not be led by the money and the perks, as they may be great but your time in that career will be marked by stress. A fulfilling career is one that lets you use your natural talent to get the job done. Once you get this right, then the money follows.
 3. Assess your current skills 
 ALSO READ:

Top 10 activities we spend ‘office time’ doing - including looking for other jobs

 Of course, you have a set of skills that can be applied across several fields. For example, if you are working in customer service, you have great communication skills. Therefore, if your target career is sales, you have transferable skills which can help you get started. 
 This assessment should also help you identify those skills that you are missing. A good analysis should show your strengths, weaknesses, and what you need to work on. You will be surprised at just how many transferable skills you possess, which is just the motivation you need to get started. 
  
     4.    What New Skills Do You Need?
 As expected, there will be a skills gap. Therefore, know what skills you need and devise a plan for attaining them. You could take up classes or simply learn on your own. The internet is full of resources that you can use to learn. 
 You may also choose to shadow someone on the job, volunteer, or take up an internship. If your workplace allows, you can switch departments internally, which is easier as opposed to looking for a new job. 
 
     
  5.   Polish Up Your Networking Skills
  
 Networking is perhaps one of the easiest ways to get started on a new career. Use your current networks to spread the word that you are looking to shift careers. Those within your network are best placed to give you leads and recommend you when you are looking to change jobs. 
 On the other hand, they can be great sources of information about skills, and opportunities in the career you want to join. They can, therefore, help you with training so that you can gain career-relevant skills.
  
  6. Revamp Your CV
 You are looking to change lanes and the best selling tool is your CV. A different career path will require a radically different one. Go through your CV and highlight those transferable skills that you have gained over the years so that your potential employer will easily pick them out.
 
  
 A good CV should be able to secure you an interview so take time to craft a great one. State that you are looking to change careers and are open to learning, as this is what will help you get your foot in the door.
 Changing careers is not easy, after years of building your current one. However, if you want new challenges or don’t find your current job satisfying, you might want to take the plunge. Use these tips to successfully move to a new career. Find more tips on how to navigate your career on BrighterMonday blog. 
