Jubilee supporters were allowed to vote in the August elections without identification, a court has been told.
 Rostica Akech, who was testifying in a case challenging the declaration of Samuel Arama as the winner, said some Jubilee supporters could not be identified by the KIEMS kits but were allowed to vote. 
 ALSO READ:

Jubilee blunder may lead to 3 million title deeds being revoked

 “Some voters’ features could not be identified biometrically. But those allied to Jubilee party were allowed to vote while those allied to other political parties were turned away," said Akech who was Nakuru Town West Constituency aspirant Isoe Ochoki's agent in Koinange Primary polling station.
 Dr Ochoki's other agent, Geoffrey Nyang’au, said there was fracas before counting started and they were chased away by Arama’s supporters at Mama Ngina Primary School polling station.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “Jubilee Party supporters caused mayhem in the polling station and chased away all ODM agents during counting of votes. I was not present when the winner was being announced because we were denied access to the polling station,” Nyang’au told court.
 Power blackout
 The court heard that at Kaptembwo and Heshima primary school centres, there was power blackout between 7pm and 9pm when counting of votes was going on.
 Esmond Mosiori, Ochoki's chief agent, told the court the lighting problem that lasted at least two hours before Kenya Power intervened was used to steal votes.
 He also accused Arama of bribing voters at Kaptembwo polling centre. “We were denied entry into the polling station by police officers as vote counting was going on. I also saw Arama and the sub-county administrator giving money to voters at Nakuru West Secondary School behind the classrooms,” said Mosiori.
 Testifying before Justice Mumbi Ngugi, witnesses denied signing forms 35As. The hearing continues. 
 ALSO READ:

Jubilee MPs oppose Uhuru’s Parliamentary Service Commission nominees

