Somali-based militant group Al-Shabaab has set fire on two police stations in Ijara town, Garrisa County before escaping with a police Land Cruiser.  
 Police sources intimate to Standard Digital that no casualties has been recorded from the early Saturday dawn attack. 
 ALSO READ:

43 dead in South Sudan

 The attackers are reported to have destroyed a Safaricom mast in the region, cutting off communication before looting a shop in the town.
 Reinforcements have been deployed to the area to track the attackers.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 In November, intelligence revealed a supremacy battle and fallout in the Al-shabaab camps as commanders differed on indiscriminate killings of Muslims in Mandera and Garissa.
 “Earlier in the year, mid-level commanders, who are mostly from Northern Kenya, expressed fury over killings in Mandera and Garissa that ended up targeting and killings of Muslims,” the intelligence said.
 The militant group’s leaderm, Ahmad Diriye, is reported to be under criticism for not consulting others before making decisions and has faced several insubordination incidents from his juniors.
 The dossier further revealed that Kenyan-born Al Shabaab leader, Ahmed Iman was contemplating to leave the terror group after being disgruntled with the increased killings of Kenyan fighters within the militia outfit.
On November 7, transport in Mandera County was paralysed after operators suspended bus services in the county for three days after Al Shabaab ambushed and burnt down two police Land Cruisers in an attack in Daba City.
 
The two vehicles carrying 12 police officers were escorting a bus to Mandera when they were hit by rocket-propelled grenades. The incident occurred after the bus had passed.
 
One officer was reported missing after the attack but his colleagues say he has since communicated from a hideout in the area. 
 
Read more at: https://www.standardmedia.co.ke/article/2001259567/two-vehicles-carrying-12-police-officers-escorting-a-bus-to-mandera-hit-by-rocket-propelled-grenades
 More to follow.
 
 ALSO READ:

Voting done in Garissa amid heavy showers

