Nakuru MCAs are demanding Sh100,000 Christmas token after failing to get unsecured car loans and mortgage.
 A senior official at the county assembly told The Standard that after failing to secure the Sh5 million unsecured loans for cars and houses, the MCAs have resorted to intimidating accounting officers and Speaker Joel Kairu. 
 ALSO READ:

Leaders ask President Uhuru to unite country after swearing in ceremony 

 “They are even threatening to impeach the speaker if their demands are not met,” the official said.
 But Mr Kairu said that he was not aware of any plans to impeach him.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “MCAs have been having issues with the car loans and mortgages. I haven’t heard of plans to impeach me because no such motion has been filed with the clerk,” he said.
 MCAs have been at loggerheads with the assembly administration after stringent measures were introduced to stop them from getting car loans and mortgages without security.
 On July 27, the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC) wrote to governors, county secretaries, clerks to the county assemblies, and county public service boards cautioning them against giving staff and MCAs loans without security.
 “All CECs and MCAs are on fixed term contracts. Car loan and mortgage benefits advanced to them should therefore, be strictly recovered within the contract term as outlined in the SRC circular,” stated the letter.
 The letter further stated that county assemblies must ensure that car log books are jointly registered between the county government and applicants of the facility and title deeds are charged on the member of the scheme.
 Since being sworn into office, the MCAs have been pushing for retreats, training seminars, and meetings outside the assembly to earn more allowances. 
 ALSO READ:

Girls dominate Nakuru County KCPE ranking.

 Documents obtained from the assembly indicate that in the first 100 days, the MCAs have pocketed more than Sh20 million in allowances from seminars and retreats.
 “They have been to Naivasha for four days, Nairobi seven days, Machakos six, and Naivasha again for two more days,” said an official.
 And in Murang'a County some MCAs have been summoned by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to record statements for allegedly attacking their clerk, Chris Kinyanjui, on November 27.
 They are expected to appear before detectives between today and December 18.
 Before the incident, the MCAs had held a meeting where they demanded an increase in their allowances and protested against delay in the release of car loans and mortgages.
 "The commission has reason to believe that you are in possession of information that can aid investigation and would like to record your statement on the matter," the letter to individual MCAs reads.
 The MCAs stormed the clerk's office, demanding release of their mortgages and car loans amounting to Sh5 million each, saying they had submitted security as required. 
 ALSO READ:

Police launch investigations on car burnt in Dundori Forest

 They also questioned the procurement of sports kits and the 'little' allowance that they were allocated during the Machakos Kecosa games.
 Murang’a County Assembly Speaker Nduati Kariuki said: “Let the law take its course. Several MCAs have been summoned to shed light on what could have transpired."
