It was a busy time at major bus stations in the city as residents keen to celebrate festivities with families upcountry struggled to secure vehicles. Long queues were seen at Easy Coach and Guardian booking offices. Fares were also expected to double up as Christmas approaches as the transport companies tried to make the most out of the festive season.
 Costly affair 
 ALSO READ:

9 hustles to earn you extra coin over Xmas

 Residents seeking to travel to up country are already paying dearly as all major bus companies travelling to Mombasa, Kisumu and Busia have increased fares. It now costs Sh2,000 to travel from Nairobi to Busia and other parts of Western Kenya, up from between Sh800 and Sh1,000 few weeks ago.
 “Christmas is coming, and we want to spend time with our relatives upcountry,” said Michael Makori who works at Machakos Country Bus.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Kennedy Aluvale, another city resident had been walking around with his three sons looking for a vehicle to Kakamega. The search took them to Machakos Country Bus Station.
 “I thought this time I would avoid the high fares, but it seems it is impossible. I have three sons who I have to take up-country so that they can celebrate Christmas with their grandparents,” said Aluvale, who paid Sh1,700 for each.
 The father of five said he would travel to join them a day before Christmas and hoped that coming back to Nairobi would not be that costly otherwise he may not manage to pay all their fare back.
 “Fares have shot up. I have checked with different companies, which operate buses to Kakamega and all of them have either increased fare or are fully booked until Christmas,” said Aluvale.
 The offices of different long-distance bus companies in the capital have been a beehive of activities since the beginning of December. It was a beehive of activity at Easy Coach Bus Company, operating  Western Kenya routes, there were dozens of people seeking to travel.
However, those seeking to travel from December 20, 2017 could not be served as the company’s buses are fully booked until December 25.
 Trains are full 
 ALSO READ:

Diani Beach ultimate place to be on Christmas

 It was a similar scenario at offices of vehicles to Mombasa, which is a favourite destination for most holiday-makers from Nairobi. Most of the travellers complained of fare hikes too.
The railway sector has not been spared and the company announced that trains were also fully booked.
 Kenya Railways Corporation Managing Director Atanas Maina said there had been an increase in the number of people travelling from the Coast to Nairobi and upcountry due to the school holidays and as the festive period approaches.
 “People who wish to travel by trains for Christmas and New Year to Mombasa or Nairobi must book early to avoid disappointment,” said Maina.
 He added that people can now book 14 days in advance as they have extended the booking period.
 “There are more people travelling between Mombasa and Nairobi either for leisure, or business,” Maina said.
He further noted that from November 1, the number of passengers travelling by  trains had increased to between 4,500 and 4,800, up from 2,700 in October.
