National Super Alliance (NASA) team that is organising Raila’s swearing in on December 12 says they are not sure whether to proceed with event without his deputy Kalonzo Musyoka who is out of the country.
 Speaking during a press briefing at the Wiper headquarters in Nairobi Saturday morning, the NASA leaders said the team is still consulting on whether to wait for Kalonzo to return before they are both sworn in. 
 ALSO READ:

Woman in Raila’s Zanzibar photo speaks out

 Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka is in Germany, where his wife Pauline is admitted in a hospital.
 NASA is weighing options of how Kalonzo will be sworn in alongside Raila Odinga. According to the opposition leaders, one of the options is that Kalonzo comes back to be sworn in before travelling back to Germany, another option is that NASA sends representatives to Germany and conduct the swearing in there or the coalition can postpone the event to a later date when Kalonzo will be back so that he can be sworn in with Raila.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “The presidency is a joint ticket of the president and deputy president, as NASA our president Raila Odinga is in the country and is ready for the swearing in but the DP is out of the country,” said Dr. Jared Siso, executive director of Wiper.
 On Friday, the organizing committee said Raila will be sworn in lawfully as they are planning everything as required by the laws of Kenya.
 Attorney general Githu Muigai had warned that Raila Odinga and his deputy Kalonzo Musyoka risk arrest and prosecution if they proceed with their planned December 12 swearing in.
 He maintained that such a move will be a breach of the Constitution since the country has a sitting President who recently took oath of office.
 "The criminal law of the Republic of Kenya stipulates that this sort of process is high treason. It is high treason by the persons involved and any other person facilitating that process," he said.
 Siaya Senator James Orengo dismissed Attorney General’s warning concerning swearing-in NASA leader Raila Odinga on Jamhuri Day. 
 ALSO READ:

Envoys’ message to NASA: Uhuru ready for talks

 “Treason is not an easy offense to prove. First of all the law of treason as exist in Kenya today, is an exemplification of the law of treason as it was when England was in absolute monarchy… But for a civilian to be charged for an offense of treason under the law as it exists, even under the colonial penal code… it is not as easy,” said Orengo.
