Lives of promising local artists from the Rift Valley Region were cut short in a tragic road accident at Kamara area along Nakuru Eldoert highway.
 The artists were traveling from Kericho town heading to perform at lloti area in Equator before the 7.30pm Saturday crash. 
 ALSO READ:

How safest road became death trap for motorists

 The accident according to the Rift Valley Traffic Enforcement Officer Mr Zero Arome involved four vehicles among them a Toyota probox, a Wish, Double cabin and a trailer.
 The artists, five men and two women were traveling in a Toyota probox vehicle registration number KCJ158P.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Mr Arome said driver of the probox that was heading towards Eldoret town tried to overtake a vehicle that was headed to the same direction and hit the trailer that was headed towards Nakuru head-on, killing the seven on spot.
 “Driver of the probox was overtaking a vehicle when it hit the trailer. The seven died on spot,” said Arome.
 Cosmas Rono, an artist told The Standard at the scene of accident that there were a total of nine artists who were scheduled to perform at the local club but the probox could not accommodate them all.
 Rono said they decided to have the seven board the probox while him and another colleague boarded a passenger matatu to their destiny.
 “We were a total of nine artists, among us dancers, we were headed to perform at a local club but we could not travel in the probox ,” said Rono who was overwhelmed by grief.
 He said their journey from Kericho town begun at around 6.30pm before the 7.30pm crash. Despite having boarded different vehicles, they kept communicating. 
 ALSO READ:

Kenya’s 14 kilometers of death

 However at around 7.40pm, Rono said he received shocking news that a probox had been involved in a tragic road accident, he called one of the artists but he could not receive response- his mobile phone was switched off.
 The artists commonly known as Kanja said he arrived at the scene of accident and could not believe the seven had died.
 “I am yet to believe that I have lost my close artists and dancers whom were to perform together. This is so heartbreaking,” said Rono tears rolling down his cheeks.
 Rono said they had grand plans on how to make good of the festive season to kill and transform their lives through their golden voices but as fate would have it, their lives were cut short by the grisly accident.
 Invitations to various entertainment joints in South and North Rift during the festive season he said was overwhelming and they used each single minute to satisfy their music lovers.
 “Our hands have been full during the festive season because the invites have been so many. We were scheduled to perform in Nakuru Bomet, Kericho and Eldoret among other towns where our music is well welcomed,” said the artist.
 Rono said the team was dedicated in improving local music in the country, adding that he will miss team work and unity that was a driving virtue among the artists. 
 ALSO READ:

Another accident in Salgaa claims life

 “I shall miss my team, this was a group of people whom we have been collaborating to boost music industry, more so in Kalenjin community. Our songs are much loved by our fans and it is heartbreaking to loose such lovely souls,” he condoned.
 He said he will miss the team that was dedicated in improving local art in the country and was dedicated.
 Alex Kalume, co-driver of the trailer that was transporting poultry feeds from Uganda to Kiambu said the probox was speeding during the early night crash.
 “Driver of the probox was speeding, an issue that made it difficult to avoid the accident,” said Kalume.
 Duncan Epodo, eye witness on his part said he rushed at the scene to help save lives of the young artists but unfortunately they had succumbed.
 He said mutilated bodies were stuck inside the wreckage and police together with locals had to pull them out.
 “We rushed to help save lives of the seven but they succumbed on spot,” said Epodo.
 The bodies were transported to Molo hospital morgue for postmortem.
 Bomet Governor Dr Joyce Laboso also sent her heartfelt condolences to families of the artist who hail from the county. 
 ALSO READ:

Kenyans react to NTSA move to make drunk drivers work in morgues

 Dr Laboso said she received the sad news of the death of the seven young talented musicians who have attracted hearts of many music lovers in shock.
 “It is sad that we have lost talented young men and women in prime of their youth, my thoughts and prayers are with the families of the departed,” she said in her condolences.
 She said her government shall stand with the families during this difficult moment and that she had instructed respective officers to set in place funeral committees for decent burial of the seven.
