Jubilee MPs from Rift Valley have threatened to resign en masse from parliamentary committees if the punishment by the party against three of their colleagues is not rescinded.
 
The move comes after National Assembly Majority Whip Ben Washiali wrote to MPs Alfred Keter (Nandi Hills), Silas Tiren (Moiben), Kangogo Bowen (Marakwet East) and Alex Kosgey (Emgwen) informing them that the party had discharged them from their respective committees. 
 ALSO READ:

Mugabe was relieved after quitting, mediator reveals

 They were punished for defying President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy, William Ruto's directive that all Jubilee MPs support a preferred line-up for chairpersons and vice chairpersons of House committees.
 Keter, Tiren and Bowen defeated Ali Wario, Ali Abdi and Sofia Abdi, who had been endorsed to chair labour and social welfare, agriculture, and environment committees, respectively.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Kosgey had vied for the position of chairman, Trade, Industrialidation and Cooperatives committee but lost to Kieni MP Kanini Kega.
 Yesterday, the MPs, who met at Parliament Buildings, resolved that they would resign in protest if the decision to de-whip the four members was not reversed.
 “We have met and resolved that Jubilee must immediately reinstate the MPs to their positions or we shall resign from the committees en masse,” said a source who attended the meeting.
 IMPEACHMENT MOTION
 The MPs threatened to push for an impeachment motion against Washiali if the party failed to heed to their demands.
 “MPs from Rift Valley are dissatisfied with the way our colleagues have been treated, we will team up with our like-minded colleagues within and without Jubilee and sponsor impeachment motions,” said another MP. 
 ALSO READ:

A deal that convinced Robert Mugabe to resign

 Cherangany MP, Joshua Kuttuny, convened the breakfast meeting at Parliament, which was attended by, among others, Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen.
 Asked why he convened the meeting, Kuttuny said that there was need to resolve growing discontent among Rift Valley lawmakers which they believe has been engineered by some House leaders.
 “Such small differences may create hatred and divisions as we prepare for 2022. This is why I convened the meeting, I felt it’s important for us to meet and iron out this matter,” Kuttuny said in a phone interview.
 The Rift Valley MPs also complained that none of them was picked to sit in the powerful administration and national security committee as well as the Public Investment Committee.
 “Murkomen agreed to convene an urgent meeting between the lawmakers and the Deputy President to resolve the stalemate,” said the source.
 Three out of the four MPs who were discharged from committees successfully won chairmanship of the committees after defeating the State House-endorsed nominees.
 STATE HOUSE 
 ALSO READ:

Kenyans react after Mugabe’s resignation

 The list was endorsed during a Jubilee Parliamentary Group meeting at State House, where Uhuru directed Jubilee MPs to stick to it when electing House committee chairs and vice chairpersons.
 However, some MPs who defied the order said it was not binding.
 “I don’t remember any meeting where I attended that discussed sharing of leadership positions. I expressed my desire and was voted in by the members. I am not stepping down for anybody,” said Bowen.
