Long before the secession debate became main stream after the polarising elections, economist David Ndii had flirted with the idea of breaking up Kenya into separate ethnic states close to two years ago.
 In an article published in one of the local dailies, said the Kenyan experiment had failed and it would be of great economic value if sections of the country seceded. 
 ALSO READ:

Why NASA strategist David Ndii was arrested

 The   topic would gain traction in the August 2017 election.
 Ndii’s intellectual prowess is not in question. Richtopia, a free digital platform, providing content on finance and economics ranks him 30th among the 100 most influential economists in the world.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 His biting criticism of the ruling Jubilee government  has endeared him to the Opposition and put him in the cross hairs of  the Uhuru Kenyatta administration.
 He has been a vocal critic of the government’s economic agenda, pointing  out at corruption and plunder of public resources especially in mega infrastructure projects such as the Standard Gauge Railway and the Eurobond.
 On Friday he was appointed by the National Super Alliance to chair the People’s Assembly National  Steering Committee that includes Dr Mutakha Kangu, Habida Kibwana,Oduor Ong’wen, Koitamet ole Kina and former East African Legislative Assembly  MP Peter Mathuki.
Read more at: https://www.standardmedia.co.ke/article/2001261836/david-ndii-to-head-people-s-assembly-national-steering-committee
 Initially taking subtle roles, Ndii has come out strongly calling for mass action and has been branded as a radical for his strong views on the direction this country is taking.
 Those who know him say Dr Ndii  hails from Karia village in Ikinu division of Githunguri constituency in Kiambu County.
 Ndii is said to have been living with his mother who was a teacher in the area before they relocated to Nairobi. 
 ALSO READ:

Cecafa challenge: CECAFA starts as Raila graces the event

 A resident from Karia village who declined to be named said very few people in the area knew Ndii since he left the village for Nairobi many years ago when he was a young man.
 A member of Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) Mr C.N Mbugua told the Standard that it was true that Ndii came from Kiambu County.
 In his formative years, Ndii studied at Nyahururu High School for his O'Levels before he moved on to Kangaru School in Embu County then to the University of Nairobi where he studied a Bachelor’s degree in Economics.
 Ndii is among the few Kenyans who boast of an Oxford education where he undertook his master's and doctorate degrees in economics.
 He has cut a niche in the economic development and governance advisory sector taking high profile jobs at World Bank, The Rwandan Government and Equity Bank. Besides consulting, Ndii has also had stints in academia having taught at the University of Nairobi.
 He served as a technical advisor on Public Finance to the Committee of Experts and previously worked as economic advisor to the president of Rwanda, Chief Economist for Equity Bank and as an economist with the World Bank.
 He credits among his successes the  advising the Mwai Kibaki administration on the Economic Recovery for the country. He has assumed a similar role at NASA. 
 ALSO READ:

ANC to decide its fate in NASA this week

 Ndii is a Rhodes Scholar and Eisenhower fellow and is currently the Managing Director of Africa Economics, a consulting firm 
 His is married to Mwende Gaitabaki and the couple has a daughter.
 newsdesk@standardmedia.co.ke
