Embakasi East MP Babu Owino was yesterday put to task over alleged acts of violence during the August 8 elections.
 Mr Owino was asked to explain whether he was the one who attacked his opponent Joshua Obiende of the Amani National Congress (ANC). 
 ALSO READ:

Wambora denies colluding with IEBC to rig elections

 The lawmaker, who was testifying in an election petition filed by Jubilee Party candidate Francis Muriithi, was also asked whether he asked his supporters to beat up Mr Obiende.
 While denying there was violence, Owino told the High Court in Nairobi that Obiende is a sickly person, who has a condition of unexpected collapsing. He said his rival collapsed on the election day and was hurt on his forehead.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 He told the court there were more than 50 police officers at the polling stations, thus there was no way violence could have erupted or been condoned.
 A video clip was played showing Obiende complaining that Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) officials had been bribed with Sh2 million.
 The video shows blood oozing from a cut on his forehead.
 Asked by his lawyer if he saw Obiende with the wound in his face, the first-term lawmaker said: “He has a condition of collapsing as he once collapsed at a campaign rally. Comparing my body size with that of Obiende, it was impossible for me to push him down.”
 On Thursday, bribery and violence allegations dominated the hearing of the petition which is challenging Babu’s win.
 The court was told that Obiende did not vote in the polls due to violence. 
 ALSO READ:

Two coast MCAs lose seats in court battle

 Criminal records
 Testifying before High Court judge Joseph Sergon, Embakasi East Returning Officer Nicholas Butuk said he came to learn the ANC aspirant did not vote when Directorate of Criminal Investigations officers visited him while investigating alleged assault by Owino.
 But Mr Owino, in his testimony, explained that he did not encounter or see Mr Obiende on the polls day.
 “I did not see Obiende at the polling station and there were at least 56 police officers who would not allow any violence,” he said.
 The lawmaker told the court that his opponent was disqualified by Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) over criminal records during the nominations.
 He claimed that ODM had unearthed that Obiende had been charged with violent robbery in Kisumu and jailed.
 Owino said Obiende had forged his documents that led to his disqualification. 
 ALSO READ:

IEBC official admits counting errors in Babu Owino results

 Another clip was played showing Owino standing on top of a table, addressing his supporters and demanding for the winner’s certificate.
 This, he explained, was out of impatience with the returning officer, who allegedly told him that the certificate was missing.
 “I had issues with Nicholas Butuk who, after announcing me as the winner, said he could not find my certificate as it was in custody of his personal assistant and she had been arrested,” he said.
 The MP told the court that he inquired from the OCS but was told that there was no such arrest.
 Owino denied giving bribes to win the poll, saying he beat Muriithi because of his popularity in the area.
