National Super Alliance (NASA) will tomorrow hold a strategy meeting on the way forward as it emerged plans to swear-in its leaders Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka before the end of the year were underway.
 The meeting in the North Coast will bring together opposition governors, the steering committee and key leaders. 
 ALSO READ:

NASA must embrace dialogue to save face

 NASA CEO Norman Magaya confirmed that the plan to swear-in Raila was on course. He said NASA will not allow the false sense of normalcy perpetuated by the Jubilee administration to prevail.
 “It certainly cannot go beyond 2017, and so we are talking of this happening within the next 10 days or so. We have to end the culture of electoral impunity once and for all and in this year,” Magaya said.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 He said once Raila is sworn-in, he will proceed to implement the NASA manifesto for the next five years. If he is stopped, NASA will resort to the right for self-determination.
 “It’s either democracy or self-determination.”
 Kalonzo, who will jet into the country on Monday morning after close to two months of absence is expected to attend. The Wiper leader has been attending to his ailing wife Pauline, who is hospitalised in Germany.
 Raila flew to the Coast on Friday and has been holding private meetings with leaders in the region ahead of the Monday meeting.
 NASA canceled plans to swear-in him on December 12, attracting the fury of supporters who accused the opposition leaders of taking them for a ride. It later emerged that arrangements to swear-in the opposition leader in Mombasa had been completed.
 National Assembly Minority Whip and Suna East MP Junet Mohamed said the swearing-in was suspended to give room to talks and prove to Kenyans that the opposition had good intentions. 
 ALSO READ:

Grandstanding won't allow us to gain mutual understanding

 “We did not call off the event. We only gave an opportunity to dialogue. We, however, are noticing that Jubilee are still in an ivory tower and thinks that Kenyans have moved on,” said Junet.
 He added: “The postponement of Raila’s swearing-in was just a lull before the storm. Our plans are still intact and we must liberate this country. The leadership will discuss ways on how to deal with the issues on a common front at the Coast.”
 By last evening, sources close to Kalonzo could not confirm his itinerary but said he was likely to attend the strategy meeting. In the last couple of days, there have squabbles and confusion within the coalition over parliamentary slots and the swearing-in plan.
 Clamp down the event
 The national organising committee announced the resumption of the Peoples’ Assembly process to inspire confidence among their supporters.
 The deferment of the launch of the People’s Assembly was criticised by NASA supporters who termed the decision an act of cowardice as the committee led by strategist David Ndii insisted the inaugural session of the assembly will be preceded by regional consultative forums.
 Ndii’s said they would start a series of meetings across the country after more than 10 counties passed the Peoples’ Assembly motion, with the national one to be held at undisclosed location. 
 ALSO READ:

Has Raila been outdone this time round?

 “These preparatory meetings will bring together the leadership of the different regions of the country to deliberate on national governance as it affects the regions, and to distill the region’s agenda for the Peoples Assembly,” stated the committee.
 “The first of these consultative forums, of the Coast region, is scheduled for Sunday, December 17,” the statement read in part.
 The national organising committee was to communicate the full schedule of the consultative forums. However, three days later, the program is not out. “The inaugural session of the National Peoples’ Assembly will take place early in the new year.”
 The new plan to swear-in Raila is expected to be key point of discussion at the Coast meeting.
 A source said NASA planned to have a low key inauguration to save supporters from run-ins with the police in case they decided to clamp down the event.
 “We are certain the Raila and Kalonzo will be sworn-in before December,” said the source.
 Yesterday, Junet told President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee Party not to think that the country has moved on.
 “We are still in a political crisis that must be resolved. Jubilee is living in an ivory tower and the president is not keen on extending an olive branch for talks with NASA,” he charged.
 He added: “If there is anybody who has moved on, then it’s the 38 per cent that voted for Uhuru. The remaining 62 per cent are still stuck where they were before the October 26 election.” 
 ALSO READ:

Raila mourns late Professor Calestous Juma

 The Minority whip said Uhuru was holding a ‘bird’ in his hands, which he can decide to squeeze to die or release it to fly.
 “That is how he we can unlock the political crisis the country founds itself now after the sham election,” he said.
 Raila has remained tight-lipped since the swearing-in was called off, but his political advisor, Salim Lone, implored on NASA supporters not to lose hope in their quest for electoral justice after the postponement following pleas by foreign envoys.
 Lone said they will not relent in the push for dialogue which they consider a priority. “At crucial moments they (envoys) have missed taking advantage of opportunities for showing their impartiality,” said Lone.
