Winning an election does not mean it is time to rest on one’s laurels. Instead, it is a time in which to plan concrete steps to fulfil a contract that you have signed and sealed with the people. This contract is one that you as the winner sat and wrote, and agreed to in pomp and colour.
 Now the balloons have long since burst, and the ballot and the die are cast. You must implement every word, line and paragraph of your manifesto. Unfortunately for Kenya, this is usually the time when we throw out the manifesto and begin to politic endlessly about nothing. 
 ALSO READ:

Scramble for top public positions

 I view Uhuru Kenyatta's inauguration as the perfect opportunity for Kenya to start again, by simply being the public that desires what we were promised. In his inauguration speech, Uhuru promised an amazing country. He promised a paradise built by brick, mortar and the blood, sweat, tears and goodwill of the Kenyan people. I say this because this victory was hard fought and won not just by Uhuru but also by every Kenyan.
 Uhuru has won the election, now he must set out to win the nation. The argument has been made before that he needs to dialogue and build consensus - on this I will not dwell. Instead, I will talk about on an issue that escaped mention in the political campaigns and in the inauguration: corruption.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Corruption monster
 Corruption is the one thing that stands between Kenyans and the Kenya we want. The monster of corruption seems to loom extremely large and like Goliath, it has our politicians hiding in their tents.
 At the end of the day, if Uhuru does not deal with corruption he will have failed in his second term simply because nothing he does will come out clean if it is tainted by graft.
 The whole cookie crumbles from the pressure of corruption, which is a pervasive cancer affecting every cell of the body called Kenya and is at the centre of everything that has gone wrong in our nation, including the tribal manner in which we think prosperity comes.
 To deal with corruption is quite easy, and President John Magufuli of Tanzania has shown us how: expose it. It doesn’t matter that the President can’t force anyone, but he can ask for a resignation or talk about it on TV.
 He can state openly that certain funds are missing. He can hide in a car as it is stopped by police and see if the policeman will ask for a bribe. He needs to be the whistle blower in charge and his clout as president will do the rest. 
 ALSO READ:

NASA in plot to block new Cabinet

 Secondly, he needs to be obsessed with his projects. He needs to be on his toes about the new electricity tariff for manufacturers and ensure that it is implemented and the impact on business is communicated vigorously. He needs to make sure that every foreign business that invests in Kenya is the darling of the media and the media reports every step being made.
 He needs to launch every project like he launched the Standard Gauge Railway - with pomp, colour and robust debate. He must show the country that his government is working and that he is firmly in control of every aspect.
 He must allow for his Cabinet secretaries, whoever they may be, to be astute communicators who do not wait to report to the boss but realise that the people are their bosses and that they need to report to them.
 Just as the President delivers a state of the nation address, each Cabinet secretary must be able to address the public and Parliament about their various dockets and ensure that the progress being made is the focus of the debates on TV and in bars. This failure is what dogged his first term - there was hardly any good news; instead it was whistle blowing after whistle blowing.
 It is proactivity that will define Uhuru’s second term. It is the fact that he must put in place a self-correcting mechanism within his ranks that will make his administration shine.
 Have hope
 If he wants us to have hope he must not wait for the end of a project to speak but make the time to visit the remotest regions of the country to inspect road projects, insist on cost saving and efficiency, and even call out rogue contractors and tongue whip them into line. 
 ALSO READ:

Munyes petition challenging Governor Nanok’s win kicks off in Lodwar

 Our politicians spend countless hours lobbing words at each other, so they clearly have the time, energy and wit to come up with statements that affect the public psyche. It is time they used that energy to name and shame the corrupt and the inept.
 Mr President, I long for the day when you will travel on a road that is half done and call out the contractor and tell him off for delayed work. We the public will back you and for once in this nation, there will be enough public and political goodwill to fix our nation. Your second term is a moral and developmental exam, please make sure you pass it.
 Mr Bichachi is a Communication Consultant; bichachi@gmail.com
