National Super Alliance (NASA) leader Raila Odinga has taken a swipe at the Jubilee regime following David Ndii’s arrest on Sunday night.
 Raila said on Monday that the NASA coalition would not be cowed by arrests or intimidation of its leaders by the Government. 
 ALSO READ:

Who is David Ndii?

 He added that the coalition would would not relent in pushing for reforms in the country.
 "They have tried so many ways to stop us - including threats, intimidation, arrests and even killing our people - but they don't know we have several ways of skinning a cat," said Raila.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 The former prime minister also noted that other leaders from his brigade would be arrested, but should face the authorities head on to fight for the rights of Kenyans.
 "They searched a hotel room where Ndii had been booked and took some materials. Many more are going to be arrested but we shall not be intimidated into submission," he stated.
 Raila spoke at the Kisumu County Assembly on Monday.
 The renowned economist was at Leopard Beach Hotel in Kwale at the time of his apprehension.
 Ndii was appointed by NASA coalition to head the People’s Assembly National Steering Committee on Friday (December 1) among other six leaders.
 The team will guide and facilitate various programs that will be centre of NASA’s agenda amongst other duties, according to former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale. 
 ALSO READ:

Ndii’s wife to the President: Release my husband

 The taskforce will also look into the systemic governance weaknesses that have precipitated the unfolding political impasse, said the alliance.
 The team comprises; Judy Sijeny, Hamida Kibwana, Dr Mutakha Kangu, Oduor Ong’wen, Koitamet ole Kina and former East African Legislative Assembly MP Peter Mathuki.
 Raila said in October the People’s Assembly would be a broad-based forum consisting of elected leaders and the leadership of other sectors of society in particular workers, civil society, religious leaders, women, youth and economic interest groups.
