Sometime before the 1997 General Election, the then Kitui West MP Nyiva Mwendwa fell out of favour with President Daniel arap Moi.
 Then local leaders clamoured to find her replacement. 
 ALSO READ:

NASA in fresh bid to swear-in Raila before year ends

 As the election approached, Francis Mwanzia Nyenze was propped up by Kalonzo Musyoka and Ukambani political patriarch, Mulu Mutisya, as the perfect replacement for Mrs Mwendwa.
 Mr Mutisya had Moi’s ear. Through him, Kalonzo groomed Nyenze, then a 33-year-old political greenhorn, to dislodge Mrs Mwendwa from power.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Close friendship
 According to Kauwi chief, Antony Muange Wambua, who is still in service, Kalonzo and Nyenze had a close friendship dating back to the latter's undergraduate days.
 When Kalonzo made his debut for Mwingi North parliamentary seat in 1983, it was Nyenze, then a university student, who introduced and campaigned for him in the larger area Kitui West, which was then part of Kitui North constituency.
 “Their friendship had blossomed over time and soon Kalonzo introduced him to Mulu Mutisya,” says Chief Wambua.
 Kalonzo himself was, at that time, Mzee Mutisya’s political protégé, through whom he grew his wings in Kanu, the then ruling party, before he became a darling of the Moi establishment, with several cabinet appointments to boot.
 When the Kanu party primaries for Kitui West were called in 1997, it was a battle between the well known and moneyed Mwendwa and Nyenze. 
 ALSO READ:

NASA’s options for swearing in Kalonzo

 Mwendwa, riding on a popularity wave, defeated Nyenze in the Kanu primaries. But her victory was short-lived.
 According to Rodgers Kaleve, a Kabati based businessman, Nyenze used his Kanu godfathers to successfully challenge Mwendwa’s victory, leading to a repeat poll.
 “In the repeat primaries, Nyiva was thoroughly defeated by Nyenze who thereafter won the parliamentary seat smoothly,” recalls Kaleve.
 Kalonzo and Mzee Mutisya were over the moon.
 Nyenze had now entered Moi's good books, and soon landed Cabinet posts in the Kanu regime as his political star shone brighter.
 The former MP who leaves behind a widow; Edith Nyenze and three children, went on to become a staunch Kanu stalwart, something that saw him stick with the party in the run up to 2002 general election, when every politician, including Kalonzo were ditching it for the National Rainbow Coalition (Narc).
 By the time he died, Nyenze and the former VP had cemented their political relationship so much that Kalonzo would, on several occasions, defend the former Minority Leader even when his utterances were construed by a section of the Wiper Party as Jubilee gimmicks to fracture the Opposition. 
 ALSO READ:

Kalonzo had a soft spot for dissenting Nyenze

 Those who closely interacted with the former soft spoken MP say he was an establishment person and never knew how to operate outside the Government.
 Rare criticism
 This best explains why, even as Minority Leader in the 11th parliament, he rarely criticised the Jubilee administration and at one time advised his constituents to re-elect President Uhuru Kenyatta.
 Still, many Kitui West constituents describe Nyenze as an amiable, down to earth leader who was liked by all.
 “His unmatched humility and non confrontational politics endeared him to many,” said Kaleve.
 Chief Wambua, who witnessed the late MP host Moi at his home in 1998, says Nyenze understood his people’s problems and sought to address them in every way possible.
 Among dignitaries expected to grace Nyenze's final sendoff today are Uhuru and Opposition luminaries, including his political godfather, Kalonzo Musyoka.
