Deputy President William Ruto has appealed to Rift Valley leaders to forge unity in a bid to meet election promises.
 He asked them to forget party affiliations for the sake of development. 
 ALSO READ:

Ruto’s warning to Raila ahead of presidential poll

 “I ask Kalenjin-speaking leaders and the nation as a whole that the years ahead of us are for service-delivery to the ordinary people. It does not matter which party you were elected through or whether you are an independent candidate,” he said.
 The DP made the remarks at Sossiot grounds in Belgut Constituency during the funeral service of former area MP Erick Keter who died of cardiac arrest two weeks ago.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Ruto reminded county executives that the “time to talk” was over and they should settle down for job creation through industrialisation.
 Ruto, added that the Jubilee administration had a five-year plan and governors must create industrial parks that will create at least 5,000 job opportunities for the youth. “Governors have been talking for a long time; it is time to separate those who are committed to service-delivery from the joy riders,” he said.
 The DP asked governors to follow Marsabit County’s example by funding for mwananchi’s health care through the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF).
 “Whenever citizens fall sick, they are left grappling with huge medical bills. That is why we want every Kenyan to be a member of NHIF,” he said.
 Ruto said the Government would purchase 700 acres of land from multinational tea companies for expansion of Kericho town.
 He acknowledged Belgut MP Nelson Koech’s request for expansion of Sossiot Health Dispensary to a sub-county hospital and pledged Sh100M for the project. 
 ALSO READ:

Gladys Wanga summoned over remarks on President Uhuru

 “I also pledge Sh10 million for expansion of Belgut Starehe Boys in honour of its proprietor, the late Keter,” said Ruto.
 At the same time, Gatundu MP Moses Kuria dismissed claims that Mt Kenya region would back out of their pledge to support Ruto to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022.
 “Some people are peddling wild claims that we are taking Ruto for a ride. The succession is an assured cheque,” he said.
 Kanu Secretary General Nick Salat who delivered retired President Daniel Arap Moi’s message of condolence to the family of the late Keter, thanked Kericho residents for electing the late legislator. 
