The Njuri Ncheke council of elders has refuted claims they wrote to President Uhuru Kenyatta, requesting him not to name former Meru Governor Peter Munya and Land Cabinet Secretary Jacob Kaimenyi in the yet to be unveiled cabinet.
 The Njuri elders condemned the publication of a ‘fake’ letter which is circulating widely on social media. 
 ALSO READ:

Of hallowed title deeds and lost academic papers

 In the letter addressed to State House the elders asked President Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto to consider dropping Munya and Kaimenyi froth their cabinet.
 “Our attention has been drawn to some allegations being peddled by sections of the media that you are planning to name former Governor Peter Gatirau Munya to the yet to be unveiled cabinet. By the authority of carefully selected mature, composed, respected and incorruptible elders of the Njuri Ncheke, we urge you President Uhuru Kenyatta and your able Deputy William Ruto to consider dropping Peter Munya and Prof Kaimenyi from your yet to be unveiled last term cabinet,” read part of the letter.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 In the letter, purportedly signed by Chairman Paul M’Ithinkia and Secretary General Phares Ruteere, requests the presidency to consider Sports, Culture and Arts Principal Secretary Prof Kirimi Kaberia, former Buuri MP Gatobu Kinoti and former Woman rep Florence Kajuju for appointment instead.
 M’Ithinkia and Mr Ruteere convened a press conference in Meru town on Friday to deny they authored the document which is the subject of debate on social media and social gatherings.
 “If Munya MUST get anything from this Government then let it be a severe traditional thorough beating (TTB/KIANGAI). The two are hereby ordered to present 6 spotless bulls, 7 three-legged goats and Ksh200,000 in cash before December 24th at Njuri Ncheke shrines at 11:32am failure to which the consequences will be better imagined than experienced,” the letter stated.
 The letter also said the University of Nairobi Vice Chancellor Prof Peter Mulwa Mbithi deserved 14 bamboo canes after the institution cancelled Senator Mithika Linturi’s law degree.
 But in a hurriedly-convened press briefing Ruteere and M’thinkia denied writing the letter, saying it was the work of “mad men”.
 “Those who fabricated this letter are enemies of Kaimenyi and Munya. 
 ALSO READ:

Munya to withdraw petition as State appointment beckons

 Their aim is to cause bad blood among us by spreading malicious rumors, but it will not succeed. We are forwarding it to the directorate of criminal investigations for the culprit to be apprehended and prosecuted,” said Ruteere, adding that the elders were unanimous in their appeal for Kaimenyi’s re-appointment.
 Ruteere said elders had no authority to cane Prof Mbithi for cancelling Senator Linturi’s degree.
 “That is a matter that concerns the University senate and the Judiciary. We should not be dragged in matters that do not concern us,” he added.
 M’Ithinkia apologized to Mbithi and asked him to disregard the rumor.
 “Such words cannot come from my mouth. How would we whip Mbithi? Once caught the culprit should be taken for a mental checkup before being arraigned in court,” he said.
 Accompanied by several other Njuri district leaders including Silas Gitije, Stephen Imathiu and Anotny Kimathi, the two elders said they were for Prof Kaimenyi’s retention in cabinet as he had led the ministry well.
 
 ALSO READ:

Munya to withdraw petition challenging Kiraitu’s win

