President Uhuru Kenyatta has said the country would not relent in its war on terror and urged the military to remain steadfast.
 The Head of State assured Kenyans the war on terror will be won in his first public function Thursday since he took oath of office for his second term on Tuesday. 
 ALSO READ:

Why Uhuru’s speech offers hope

 “I want to be perfectly clear; we will win because we have right and might on our side,” President Kenyatta said.
 The President spoke at the Kenya Military Academy in Lanet, Nakuru County, where he commissioned cadets who had undergone a three-year military training at the facility and attained Bachelor of Science degrees in Military Studies.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 The cadets, who began the programme in October 2014, are set to graduate from Kenyatta University next month.
 The President, who was accompanied by Defence Cabinet Secretary Rachelle Omamo and Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui, acknowledged the challenges the country was facing in the fight against terrorism and extremists both internally and externally, including in the neighbouring Somalia.
 “Like the cowards that they truly are, these terrorists have sought most unsuccessfully to create division, hatred and fear among Kenyans,” the President said.
 Noting that Kenya today was more firmly united in the fight against terror than any time in our history, Mr Kenyatta noted that the defence forces had remained steadfast in their mission to bring lasting peace and development in the region with unwavering zeal and determination.
 “As we laud our defence and security forces for their continued efforts in keeping this country safe, I urge all Kenyans to be alive to the fact that terrorism cannot be defeated by military might alone,” he said.
 “As a country, we have a professional defence force that has helped in achieving our national goals. But Kenyans should be alive to the fact that terrorism cannot be defeated by the military might alone but by all of us. 
 ALSO READ:

Banish binary politics through seeking national consensus

 “I wish to thank the Kenya Defence Forces for not only living up to its expectations, but also ensuring that Kenyans of different ethnic and religious backgrounds work together in harmony as patriots guided by the values of loyalty, discipline, professionalism, integrity and a high sense of identity,” he said.
 The president lauded the military and security agencies for keeping the country safe and urged Kenyans to be alive to the fact that terrorism cannot be defeated by military might alone.
  “The prosperity of a nation depends on how peace, security, governance and sound economic development policies are brought to act on each other for the advancement of the society,” said Uhuru.
