The observance of the World Anti-Corruption day on Saturday (December 9) came at an opportune time, because the scourge of corruption in Kenya has seemingly refused to go away. Corruption has, over the years, permeated all levels of society and alarmingly, seems to have been accepted as a way of life.
 Corruption is a long-standing issue that needs to be tackled more decisively. Those charged with this onerous task must move away from the usual placatory words they feed Kenyans on once in a while even as the vice moves from strength to strength. 
 ALSO READ:

Act on Auditor General’s financial reports

 This year’s theme, “United Against Corruption’ was apt and should guide our fight against corruption. We must first take a closer look at our political set up that in a way, encourages corruption. An apparent lack of political goodwill in the fight against corruption is the biggest impediment in the way of that noble cause.
 There is reason to believe President Uhuru Kenyatta, in his second and final term, will not give the impression of a president whose hands are tied and cannot do much about corruption. In his speech during this year’s International Anti-Corruption Day, President Uhuru assured Kenyans that: “On my part, I once again assure you that in this fight, I shall be daring, different and indefatigable.” That is the way to go.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 The matter of legislation should be tackled so that institutions charged with fighting corruption; the police, the Director of Public Prosecutions(DPP) and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) stop laying blame at each other’s doorstep every time something seems not to be moving as desired.
 Already, the EACC, while stating it has already charged 1,180 individuals with corruption, has called for the amendment of the law to give EACC powers to prosecute suspects in order to strengthen the fight against corruption.
 Fighting corruption, however, calls for more than giving EACC prosecutorial powers. The Judiciary’s role in ending corruption cannot be underestimated. This, perhaps is what caused President Uhuru to call for a deepening of the engagement between the Executive and the Judiciary to address the delays in the justice system and to plug the loopholes that lead to the abuse of the Court system to sabotage war on corruption. Ending corruption should be Uhuru’s major gift to Kenyans.
