
 Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has released the 2017 Kenya Certificate of Secondary School at Nairobi School. 
 ALSO READ:

Students who missed KCPE to sit supplementary exams, Uhuru orders

 Naomi Karimi Kawira from Pangani Girls is the  2017 KSCE top candidate with a mean score of 87.011 points while Sharon Chepchumba from Moi girls is second best with 86.83 points.
 142 students score  plain A's while 2,714 others had a mean grade of A-minus.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 The CS said there was a notable improvement in the 2017 KCSE results as compared to 2016 ones where 141 candidates scored grade A.
  He noted that female candidates performed better than male ones in this year’s KCSE.
 Dr Matiang’i said results from 10 secondary schools had been withheld over exam irregularities and that the Education Ministry would give a detailed report on January 18.
 The CS hailed the collaboration with the ministries of Defense and ICT, The military for transporting the exams and ICT for assisting in the marking.
 Dr Matiang’i said President Uhuru's directive to work with Health Ministry to register 3 million secondary school students with NHIF from January 2018  was in process.
 The Teachers Service Commission CEO Nancy Macharia warned that teachers found guilty  of cheating during exams whether in private or public schools would be punished.
 She asked the Education ministry to de-register private schools that employ teachers who had been dismissed for  indiscipline.
 Macharia insisted on teachers annual appraisals, a decision that was reached at to ensure teachers took their work seriously and ensured students perform well.
 KNEC Chairman Prof Magoha hailed President Uhuru for his dedication and commitment to ensure Education Ministry conducts its activities smoothly. 
 President Uhuru Kenyatta asked the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) to reward principals, schools and subject teachers who excelled in 2017 KCSE to promote continued high performance.
 He also urged Attorney General Githu Muigai to work with DPP Keriako and ensure over 700 teachers involved in exam irregularities were punished to serve as an example.
 ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru  commended the data entry clerks for the good work they did in helping with marking of KCSE with was done within 11 days.
 The 2017 KCSE exams were written between  November 6  and  29 and took a record 11 days  to mark, a big jump from previous years where results were announced in February. Candidates are getting their results just 21 days after completion.
 A total of 615,773 candidates sat for the exam this year compared to 577,253 candidates who wrote the KCSE exams in 2016.
