In a rare show of unity Jubilee and National Super Alliance (NASA) coalitions have suspended their differences in  order to agree on the composition of parliamentary committees and the  lawmakers to vote in for the East African Legislative Assembly MPs today.
 The house committees business is expected to be concluded today and the EALA one tomorrow.  
 ALSO READ:

NASA governors skip Jamhuri Day celebrations

 The Standard has reliably learnt that the NASA and Jubilee are plotting a trade-in today at a meeting convened by the leadership of both parties, to ensure all their front-runners will sail through in the Senate and National Assembly without any opposition.
 "We will have a meeting on Wednesday to deliberate on the list ahead of the vote on Thursday. The lobbying is still on. We are yet to settle of our four favourites,” said National Assembly Minority Leader John Mbadi (Suba South).




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 A source privy to the developments informed The Standard that Jubilee had requested for a meeting to present its list and also get  NASA's. They want the exercise to end well without any hiccups.
 Senator Minority Whip Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr also indicated that the caucusing will continue among the lawmakers to settle on the nine EALA members.
 “A clear picture of who the parties prefer will be seen after the coalition’s Parliamentary Group (PG) meeting,” said Kilonzo Jnr, without indicating the time.
 During Thursday’s vote both MPs and senators will be expected to vote for nine candidates who will be EALA MPs for the next five years.
 Jubilee is fronting, ex-MPs Mpuru Aburi, Simon Mbugua,Mohammed Nooru, Florence Jematiah and Irene Masit, while NASA has ex-MPs Oburu Odinga,Fatuma Ali, Kennedy Musyoka and NASA Chief Executive Officer Norman Magaya.
 Stakes are very high as parties focus on regional and gender balance to elect nine representatives to the Arusha, Tanzania, based parliament. The nine will be picked among the 25 approved by the joint committee of both Houses after two were dropped in the shortlist. 
 ALSO READ:

President Uhuru's conditions for talks after divisive October poll

 National Assembly majority whip Ben Washiali said the trade-in was the best way forward as all the candidates shortlisted  were qualified for the jobs.
 "However the formula should represent the face of Kenya. If NASA settles on a candidate from Northern Kenya, Jubilee should pick someone from Coast so that all the former provinces are represented. When we are in Kenya we identify as ourselves as Jubilee and NASA but once our representatives cross the border they represent the country."
 But even as the two major coalitions try to formulate an acceptable team, the 25 candidates who are still in the race have engaged in last ditch campaigns to capture the lucrative seats.
 “I have campaigned among the legislators and continue to do so until the last day for the vote. The response is positive and quite encouraging, I will still not relent,” said Mbugua.
 “I have reached out to both Jubilee, NASA and independent candidate MPs. Given an opportunity, I will rally the country’s agenda at the regional Parliament,” he added.
 From Jubilee side, former National Assembly clerk Justin Bundi enjoys favourable support but majority has thrown their weight behind Aburi.
 Fatuma Ali, the former Wajir  MP’s support, is threatened by former Mbalambala MP Abdikadir Aden’s candidature, although she will counting on the gender card to give her upper hand. 
 ALSO READ:

Healing Kenya calls for action on issues cited in poll standoff

 Other candidates have also been campaigning at Parliament buildings since last week to lobby for the seat and dashing our brochures detailing their manifestos.
 One of the candidates got a rude shock when he found his competitors sharing the manifestoes and questioned if it was important, only to also print the same.
 Some of the candidates have sought the intervention of the Majority leaders Aden Duale (Garissa Township) and Kipchumba Murkomen (Senate) and the whips.
 Though, Jubilee has remained tight-lipped on the choice of representatives, President Kenyatta and DP Ruto are expected to convene the PG today to deliberate on the same.
 Members will be whipped to vote the selected candidates as has been the tradition in Jubilee when dealing with bi-partisan Parliamentary issues
 Magaya when contacted, confirmed that he is still campaigning.
 “I have reached out to a number of MPs from both sides of the political divide and  I'm optimistic I will get their backing on Thursday,” said Magaya.
 As for Ali, she  said that having had served in the last parliament, she believed her colleagues understood her capacity and will give her the opportunity to represent the country at the regional assembly.
 “I have lobbied and continue to do so,” said Ali who argued that both Jubilee and NASA leadership have always pledged to support women development. 
 ALSO READ:

Churches praise NASA move

  “I have served in the Justice and Legal Affairs committees.  I will be instrumental in championing issues of women and the youth. It is high time our voices are heard in the region,” she added.
 Those elected will immediately travel to Arusha for the inauguration the following day.
 Kenya has given her undertaking to submit the names by December 13, however parliament passed an adjournment motion last week to extend the exercise by a day.
 The list must be ready by Thursday ahead of the the swearing of MPs to the for the Fourth Session of the Assembly which has delayed for months.
