President Uhuru Kenyatta on Tuesday opened the door for conditional talks after the divisive elections, but warned against violation of the Constitution.
 Uhuru said he would only pursue political leadership for 'economic liberation', for which he said he was willing to engage all Kenyans, including his rivals in the recent elections. 
 ALSO READ:

Competent loyal Cabinet only assurance of solid legacy for Uhuru

 "As I have stated before, as President of all Kenyans, I am willing to engage all Kenyans and leaders, including my worthy competitors, irrespective of their religious or ethnic affiliation, in fashioning this paradigm shift," he said during the 54th Jamhuri Day celebrations in Nairobi.
 Common goal




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 He added: “I reach out to all Kenyans to help achieve our common goal of peace, stability, and prosperity for all. It is our shared responsibility to work towards these ends, knowing we all have a role to play and we all must listen to one another.”  
 NASA has demanded dialogue between President Kenyatta and its leader, Raila Odinga, over the October 26 repeat presidential election that the Opposition boycotted.
 NASA had threatened to swear in Raila but cancelled the ceremony that had been scheduled to take place yesterday following local and international pressure.
 The Opposition has vowed not to recognise Uhuru's presidency. It has also vowed to destabilise his administration.
 Violate Constitution
 President Kenyatta said his government would not give in to actions that violate the Constitution. 
 ALSO READ:

Healing Kenya calls for action on issues cited in poll standoff

 "Today, I serve notice to those treating our constitutional order with their casual recklessness. The Constitution is the general will of all. No one is above it. No matter who you are, you are subject to its authority. Anything outside the Constitution is a hostile intrusion," Uhuru said.
 "Whoever destroys property, whoever chooses senseless violence over constitutional order – all these are enemies of the republic. That is how they will be treated," the President said during the celebrations at Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani.
 Uhuru urged Kenyans to shun politicians playing divisive politics. "Anyone who chooses violence over the constitutional order is an enemy of the republic and will be dealt with as such."
 He also appeared to address the Opposition in its calls for secession, maintaining that Kenya would remain a united nation under one president, democratically elected by Kenyans as provided for in the Constitution.
 “There will be a fifth, sixth, and even 10th president of Kenya but there will not be a second, third or fourth Kenya. Leaders come and go but Kenya will remain,” said Uhuru.
 He was categorical that his engagement with the Opposition must be towards Kenya's prosperity, "which must be elevated above politics".
 "I will unite all Kenyans and make a paradigm shift that will place equal opportunity, dignity for all, and pursuit of material prosperity for all above politics. 
 ALSO READ:

Co-operative bank group CEO to receive presidential award

 “I have seen the future and it is at hand. The pursuit of politics for politics’ sake is the past. Pursuit of political leadership for economic liberation is the future. It is up to Kenyans to deliver it,” said President Kenyatta.
 "Such a shift, to pursue the country's transformation, will require participation of all Kenyans. This is not the agenda of Jubilee leaders and their supporters but all Kenyans.
 “It will attract cynics and pessimists; it will attract haters of our country, who want to imprison us in a vicious cycle of empty politics and talk. The big shift cannot and will not be achieved by me and Jubilee; it will need all of us.”
 Uhuru urged the youth not to allow politicians to use them for their own selfish ends. Instead, he advised them to work hard to improve their lives while rejecting those out to lead them astray.
 He said his administration was committed to opening up more opportunities to accommodate the youth.
 “I believe in you (youth), you are my partners. That is why my 'Big Four' plan is centred on you. You will drive the big shift from politics to prosperity,” said the President.
 He added that his plan is centred on what he termed the Big Four – food security, affordable housing, manufacturing, and affordable healthcare. He said achieving these goals would transform Kenya economically and socially. 
 The President said the 'Big Four' would build on the foundation he laid in his first term in sectors such as transport, energy, education, and ICT. 
 Greater comfort 
 ALSO READ:

Githeri man, Robert Alai, Dennis Itumbi to receive HSC awards

 “The Big Four will create jobs, which will enable our people to meet their basic needs. Jobs will transform the lives of our people from hardship and want to new lives of greater comfort and well-being. That is the future I have seen,” said the President.
 He gave a breakdown of what his administration plans to do to achieve its goals.
 “Selfishness and corruption of some amongst us have allowed inefficiencies, counterfeiters and cartels to flourish. It’s time to face and to defeat these enemies.”
 Uhuru promised to boost the blue economy, making use of the over 400 kilometres of rich coastline and the country’s share of Lake Victoria to create wealth.
 “It is shameful that we exploit only a small fraction of these God-given resources. Our coastal and marine ecosystems, if properly exploited, would create tens of thousands of jobs for our people. Instead, we have allowed others to take our resources, build their economies, and create jobs for their people at our expense,” he said.
