Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi has dismissed claims that he was back-tracking on the planned swearing-in of Raila Odinga.
 Mudavadi who is also a NASA co-principal, said he was fully behind the December 12th plans to swear-in Raila Odinga as the peoples president.’ 
 ALSO READ:

Uhuru-Raila dialogue will halt political and ethnic tensions

 Speaking on Saturday after chairing ANC Parliamentary Group and National Executive Committee meeting at the Santrim Hotel in Elementaita, Nakuru County, he assured that his party was firmly in NASA and would continue to pursue reforms and electoral justice.
 “I have made a personal commitment to seek justice for all. NASA is not interested in ‘nusu mkate’ (coalition government) nor do I need a job in Jubilee government. This is not about an individual,” he said.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 The ANC leader said he was ready for national dialogue to address the political crisis in the country, as long as such talks were genuine, honest and transparent.
 However, divisions are seemingly emerging in ANC following revelations that a section of the party leadership was not keen to endorse the swearing-in of Raila.
 One of the party officials who spoke to Sunday Standard on condition of anonymity, said the leadership was divided over the issue during the meeting.
 “A number of us felt that Mudavadi has a bright political future and it was political suicide to involve himself with the event that would paint him as one of the leaders out to cause anarchy in the country,” the official said.
 A week ago, Lugari MP Ayub Savula wrote to Mudavadi calling for ANC to quit NASA over the row on the parliamentary committees’ slots. Disciplinary action against Nominated MP Godrey Osotsi was expected to be discussed at the meeting but the members were reportedly divided over the matter.
 “Some members claimed that Osotsi played a crucial role in the party and was pivotal in the formation of NASA and it will be wrong to start belittling him,” said one of the officials present. 
 ALSO READ:

Dialogue is the only way to recapture the Kenyan dream

 Last week, ANC Chairman Kelvin Lunani in one of the local dailies accused Osotsi of being behind the petitions to the Registrar of Political Parties to have Barrack Muluka’s appointment as the party secretary general quashed claiming that due process was not followed.
 The source said whereas one group led by Lunani and members allied to Savula were keen to initiate disciplinary action against Osotsi and the other group was cautious for of fear of backlash.
 But Mudavadi downplayed the issues in the party saying their main objective is to work with NASA to pursue free and fair repeat election.
 “I have heard people tell me that I have a bright political future and that I should not involve myself with the December 12 event. But I ask them what is the need of a rose on a heap of garbage!” he said.
