National Super Alliance (NASA) supporters in the United Kingdom have backed plans to ‘swear-in’ opposition chief Raila Odinga on December 12.
 NASA UK branch led by chairman Kivindyo Ndivo said the ‘swearing-in’ of Raila and Kalonzo Musyoka through the People’s Assembly was constitutional. 
 ALSO READ:

Revealed: NASA’s demands in behind-the-scenes power talks

 “This position is informed by the fact that we in diaspora and many other Kenyans do not to recognise legitimacy of Uhuru Kenyatta and his government despite being coroneted into office on November 28,” said Kivindyo. He added: “We also support the setting up of People’s Assembly as a way of engaging ordinary citizens in entrenching the democratic principles and values within the different arms of government for a truly people’s republic.”
 Kivindyo said they will only recognise President Uhuru Kenyatta’s leadership if he agrees to spearhead acceptable electoral reforms culminating in fresh, free, fair and verifiable elections in all the 291 constituencies.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “As Kenyans we have the right not to recognise an illegitimate government and their inert right to self-determination as envisaged within article one of the Constitution under the premise of people’s social contract.”
 The opposition supporters condemned what they called ethnic killing being meted on communities aligned to NASA by police and the Nairobi Business Community in full knowledge of the Jubilee government.
 Prayer rally
 On November 28, three people were killed as police dispersed NASA supporters to stop the planned prayer rally for victims of police brutality at Jacaranda grounds in Embakasi, Nairobi.
 “We would like to put Kenyatta’s government on notice that these police killings of unarmed Kenyans amount to crimes against humanity according to the Rome statute and we will be pursuing the perpetrators of such heinous crimes through the right channels,” said Kivindyo.
 He condoled families of victims of police brutality and called on the International Community to live up to the watchdog standards especially the British Government. The NASA UK branch condemned foreign and local companies that allegedly supported the Jubilee government during the disputed elections saying this dented Kenya’s democracy. 
 ALSO READ:

Why I won’t give in to Jubilee and NASA demands

 Kivindyo said the Diaspora community will remain vigilant on going -on in Kenya. They promised lobby on behalf of County Governments to enhance local investments and development.
