All teachers will from January be required to renew their certificates every five years, the Government has said.
 The Teachers Service Commission (TSC) also announced that it would no longer demote teachers. 
 ALSO READ:

Form 1: How TSC plans to tackle burden on teachers

 TSC says the Teachers Service Commission Act requires renewal of certificates every five years.
 "Come January 2018 every teacher will be required to renew a certificate from the commission which will be renewed after every five years," TSC chairperson Lydia Nzomo said.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Teachers who will be hired next year will be required to produce a certificate of good conduct, she added.
 "In the new module, teachers will be expected to produce certificates of good conduct since we need teachers who are trained, qualified and possess professional qualifications," she said.
 The teaching profession, she said, was borrowing the practice from medicine and law where professionals renew certificates regularly.
 Nzomo announced this at the 13th annual Kenya primary schools head teachers association conference in Mombasa yesterday where close to 10,000 headmasters and headmistresses are meeting.
 Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers (Kuppet) chairman Akelo Misori pledged to oppose the new regulations if they are harmful to teachers.
 Mr Misori claimed the union had not been consulted on the matter but was open to talks. 
 ALSO READ:

Top teachers to be rewarded, TSC

 "TSC cannot come up with rules and regulations before consulting us. We need to look at the details and find out if the new rules are useful or harmful to our delivery of service," Misori told The Standard on telephone.
 But Ms Nzomo said the objective of the new regulation and focus of TSC's policy was to boost morale and avoid humiliation of teachers through unwarranted demotions. Instead, TSC will strive to ensure teachers progress or achieve upward mobility, she said.
 It was not immediately clear how TSC would discipline errant or non-performing teachers and headteachers.
 Nzomo said relegation demoralises school heads and lowers their self-esteem.
 “It would be unfair to degrade a teacher and they keep moving around the school, their colleagues knowing that they have been demoted,” she added.
 The commission would recognise the efforts of all teachers who need a promotion.
 Curriculum implementation 
 ALSO READ:

TSC set to pay Sh17b pension to retirees

 She added no one would influence the hiring of teachers.
 "The commission will make sure nobody influences your sacking. Head teachers should just do their job knowing they are protected," Nzomo added.
 The conference whose theme is "re-engineering the teaching profession in the 21st century for effective curriculum implementation", was attended by over 10,000 teachers.
 Nzomo said in the event a teacher excuses himself from his current post, he would be deemed to have exited the profession.
 "In the police service, when a corporal becomes OCPD (officer commanding police division), he will never go back to be a corporal," the chairman said.
 Nzomo said the TSC's aim was to professionalise the teaching fraternity, adding that exiting the profession would only be encouraged when a teacher is going for a better job.
 Promotions will only be delayed if there is a financial crisis.
 Kenya Primary Schools Head teachers Association chairman Shem Ndolo said some heads were yet to get a pay increase although the latest collective bargaining agreement (CBA) had come into force.
 
 ALSO READ:

90,000 teachers to undergo training

