The Supreme Court of Kenya is set to give a full ruling why President Uhuru Kenyatta's win in the October repeat election was upheld.
 The full verdict will be delivered on Monday, December 11, 2017. 
 ALSO READ:

Raila defiant despite treason warning 

 According to the Constitution, the highest court in the land should be provided 21 days after the reading of a summary judgement.
 The bench found that the two separate petitions, that of Harun Mwau and that of Khelef Khalifa and Njonjo Mwau, failed to show that the repeat presidential election was flawed to warrant a nullification.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 The court has unanimously determined that the petitions are not merited and the final orders are that the petition by John Harun Mwau versus the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission and two others as consolidated is hereby dismissed.
  
 “The petition by Njonjo Mue and another versus the Chairperson of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission and three others as consolidated is also hereby dismissed. As a consequence, the presidential election of October 26 is hereby upheld as is the election of Uhuru Kenyatta,” Chief Justice David Maraga ruled.
 The bench will issue a detailed explanation addressing issues that came up during the hearing.
 The judges will also explain whether the IEBC was within the law to declare Uhuru the President-elect with four counties of Nyanza having failed to vote.
 On November 20,the Supreme Court unanimously upheld the re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta. 
 ALSO READ:

Tears as families collect bodies of post-election violence victims

 All the eyes were on the Supreme Court judges led by Chief Justice David Maraga, who upheld Uhuru re-election to paving way for his swearing in for the second term in office. 
 This time, the court unanimously upheld President Uhuru’s re-election throwing out the petitions on grounds that they were not merited. 
 On September 1, the Supreme Court annulled the August 8 presidential election on the grounds that it had not been conducted  according to the constitution and the applicable law.
 The Chief Justice, Justices Mwilu, Lenaola, and Wanjala upheld the Raila-Odinga petition against President Uhuru’s election.
 Justices Ojwang and Ndung’u dissented while Justice Mohammed did not participate having had been taken ill midstream the hearing.
 President Uhuru Kenyatta took a dim view of the annulment and called the judges crooks even as he said he would respect their decision, promising to “fix” the court in parliament.
  
 ALSO READ:

NASA should rethink plan to swear in Raila as 'president'

