NASA MPs at the Coast have turned down an invitation by Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala and Kilifi politician Gideon Mung’aro to abandon opposition chief Raila Odinga and work with President Uhuru Kenyatta following alleged frustration.
 Kilifi North MP Mr Owen Baya, Mr Benjamin Tayari (Kinango), Ms Mishi Mboko (Likoni) and Mr Paul Katana of Kaloleni said there was more democratic space in NASA than in Jubilee Party and hence they will not switch political camps. 
 ALSO READ:

Raila claims bid to kill dissent as Ndii freed without charge

 Mr Balala and Mr Mung’aro were riding on the recent discontent between the Coast NASA MPs and their leader over a controversial list of parliamentary posts where the Coast region was not allocated any of the key positions.
 “We are in ODM and NASA to stay but we will fight more for space for the Coast region. Nothing comes without fighting. NASA coalition is more democratic than Jubilee,” Dr Baya said.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Mr Tayari, Mr Katana and Ms Mboko said they have more room to air grievances in NASA and ODM than in other parties allegedly controlled by single individuals.
 “We demanded fairness because Coast has many ODM MPs and deserved a good share but we do not intend to quit the party,” Tayari explained.
 In the controversial list, Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetangula was named Senate Minority Leader, James Orengo (Deputy Senate Minority Leader), John Mbadi (National Assembly Minority leader) and Robert Mbui (National Assembly Deputy Minority leader).
 Others were Mutula Kilonzo Jnr as Senate Minority Whip, Ms Petronilla Were as Senate Deputy Minority Whip, Junet Mohamed (National Assembly Whip) and Chris Wamalwa as National Assembly Deputy Minority Whip.
 Balala and Mung’aro separately urged Coast MPs to join the Jubilee Party following their dissatisfaction with the sharing of positions in Parliament.
 Balala is the Jubilee Party point man in Coast claimed the Government side would cater for their own interests and those of the National Assembly. 
 ALSO READ:

Why NASA's David Ndii attracts respect and disdain in same measure

 He cautioned the NASA MPs from the region that the more they remained in the Opposition the more they were going to suffer under NASA leader Raila Odinga.
 “We are ready to sacrifice JP’s 10 slots in Parliament for ten aggrieved Opposition legislators as long they serve the Government,” Balala said.
 Mung’aro who once served as ODM minority whip told ODM legislators who were not happy in their party to join him in Jubilee and work with deputy president William Ruto for his 2022 victory.
 Mug’aro said the latest intimidation for NASA leaders from the region was a clear indication that they have no place in the Opposition coalition and it was time they realigned themselves with Jubilee Party ahead of 2022 General Election.
 NASA, he said has little regards for Coast leaders and as they would never get anything good for their loyalty in the opposition coalition.
 “I welcome the Members of Parliament to join Jubilee Party. We form a partnership with Deputy President William Ruto ahead of his 2022 presidential bid,’’ Mung’aro said.
 Mr Katana said Coast legislators aired their views freely about the parliamentary positions because ODM and NASA allowed for mature democracy unlike in Jubilee. 
 ALSO READ:

Drama as fans throng Airport to see off Raila to Nairobi

 “We took advantage of prevailing democracy in NASA to air our views as legislators from the Coast unlike in Jubilee Party where only the President dictates terms to the legislators. Those waiting for us leave ODM are daydreamers,” Katana argued.
 Ms Mboko sharing out positions based on regional balance was important to unite ODM and NASA and they had to point it out when it was not done.
 “We believe that regional balance in terms of distribution of leadership positions is a way of holding us together and foster our unity. So if not done we have to point that out,” she argued.
 “Never. We are in NASA to stay. But when few members of NASA make a decision without involving others, we must speak it out because we because in internal democracy. We have that space in our party,” Ms Mboko added.
 Dr Baya said they were also encouraging their Jubilee Party counterparts from the region to fight for equity noting that Coast has received a raw deal in many areas including appointments to the East Africa Legislative Assembly (EALA) and in public universities based in the region.
 “Coast did not benefit from EALA positions and Jubilee Party legislators should be equally concerned. We have 36 positions within councils of three universities based at the Coast and they were all taken by people from outside this region and we want Jubilee legislators to join this fight,” Dr Baya said.
