Armed police yesterday picked 95 children from a Madrassa in Likoni, Mombasa County, in connection with a child trafficking investigation.
 Police suspect the children are victims of a child trafficking syndicate spanning several nations and two continents. 
 ALSO READ:

Coast Varsity feted by Unesco

 Four teachers, all Kenyan men, were also arrested.
 Kenyan police declined to divulge any information on the raid but Muslim leaders claimed that white men - possibly foreigners, were involved.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Among the 95 children, 20 are said to be foreigners but their country of origin could not be immediately established. However, reports indicate some were from Zimbabwe.
 By last evening anxious parents were still trying to secure freedom for their children who were held at the Coast police headquarters.
 Witnesses said several armed Kenyan detectives and three white men arrived at Madrasatul Falah at about 9am yesterday and seized the children and some teachers but a few fled.
 The six-year-old institution teaches Quran memorisation to Muslims at its elementary levels. Learners are later introduced to other Islamic subjects like jurisprudence or fiqh or hadith and Seera - the biography of Prophet Mohamed.
 Residents said they were attracted to the institution by commotion and screams following the arrival of the police. 
 The bewildered children and teachers scampered for cover but the detectives moved with speed and bundled them into waiting vehicles, which sped towards the Likoni ferry. 
 ALSO READ:

Kenya Railways halves costs for cargo shipments on SGR

 The children were yesterday evening still at a police station on Mombasa island amid protests from parents. The Council of Imams and Preachers of Kenya (CIPK) termed the incident a violation to freedoms enshrined in the Constitution.
 The Madrassa is adjacent to the scene of the murder of Salim Mure, a suspected terror suspect who was gunned down two weeks ago. He had been on a police list of wanted suspects.
 Yesterday, police sources privy to the raid said FBI officers had taken away the children for further investigations.
 Last evening County Regional Commander Larry Kieng confirmed the raid. “I do not have details about the incident. I cannot tell you more about it at the moment,” Mr Kieng said.
 According to sources, two police pick-ups were seen around the Madrassa minutes before the raid.
 CIPK Treasurer Sheikh Hassan Omar said the raid was uncalled for since the institution was operating legally.
 “I visited the Madrasa two weeks ago and I found it neat and operating in accordance with safety standards. The environment is very conducive. It teaches the Quran and nothing sinister takes place there,” Mr Omar said. 
 ALSO READ:

Miguna recounts his ordeal under detention

 He added that police had no right to arrest law-abiding citizens. “We are calling for unconditional release of all the children and teachers arrested since they have not violated any law. We are asking President (Uhuru) Kenyatta to intervene,” he said.
 Story by Patrick Beja, Ishaq Jumbe  and Mkamburi Mwawasi 
