Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE) wants the county government to hasten the installation of machinery worth Sh60 million at Roret pineapple juice processing factory.
 The equipment was donated by the Jubilee government and delivered to the factory located 3km from Roret trading centre by Deputy President William Ruto a few months ago. It was aimed at assisting fruit farmers from Bureti constituency venture into value addition. 
 ALSO READ:

Bomet County to build Sh50m pre-units

 Currently, fruit dealers from as far as Nairobi and other major towns usually buy pineapples for less than Sh50 apiece from the area.
 But once the juice processing project takes off, it’s expected to create job opportunities for local residents and spur growth of real estate among other business ventures in the sleepy Roret trading centre.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Speaking when he met a group of concerned farmers, KIE Director Lucas Kirui said the county government must demonstrate appreciation for the gift by ensuring the factory roars into business.
 “The county government must also play its role in the industrialisation of the county by providing funds for the installation of the machinery donated to Kericho farmers by the Jubilee government through Deputy President William Ruto. There is no reason why the machinery should lie idle,” he said.
 Mr Kirui, at the same time, reiterated Ruto's call to governors to support the Jubilee administration's five-year industrialisation plan by establishing industrial parks which will create 3,000 to 5,000 jobs for the youths.
 “Governors have been talking for a long time and it’s time to separate those who are committed to service delivery from joyriders,” Ruto said at Sossiot Stadium during his recent visit to Kericho County.
 The KIE director said he had held discussions with senior officials in the Ministry of Industrialisation, Trade and Cooperatives and had agreed to set aside funds for the establishment of industrial park in Kericho if Governor Paul Chepkwony's government provides land and Sh20 million start-up capital for the local entrepreneurs.
 
 ALSO READ:

Kalonzo: I will be sworn in with Raila

