Almost 200 paedophiles were arrested in just one week for grooming children online, according to reports.
 It came during a crackdown on apps that offer live-streaming services including Facebook, Instagram and Live.me 
 ALSO READ:

Social media storm over missing women in Uhuru’s economic team picture

 Around 30 per cent of suspects worked in a position of trust, including teachers, civil servants, military personnel and police officer.
 The swoop saved 245 children from exploitation.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Sick perverts pose as other children and convince targets to expose themselves or perform sex acts online.
 Often they then use the pictures or video as blackmail to force children into even more degrading acts.
 Police believe dangerous suspects are using live streaming to bombard their targets with comments, using dares, threats or the offer of rewards such as 'game points', to try and manipulate them into nudity on a webcam.
 Chief Constable Simon Bailey, lead for child sexual abuse crime in the country, said police are trying their best to tackle the problem.
 But he added: "We also need help.
 "We need internet companies to help us stop access to sexual abuse images and videos and prevent abuse happening on their platforms. 
 ALSO READ:

Facebook woos African developers

 "We need parents and carers to talk to their children about healthy relationships and staying safe online."
 The National Crime Agency said 192 suspects were arrested during the campaign in October.
 Head of safeguarding Zoe Hilton said: "We know that as children's online habits change, offenders are adapting with them.
 "These individuals are learning how young people communicate online and are using this knowledge to contact, befriend and abuse them.
 "It's great to see that so many parents are aware of the potential dangers children face online, but with this campaign we're asking them to make sure they familiarise themselves with their children's online behaviour and keep that knowledge up to date.
 "Offenders will take advantage of the fact that young peoples' inhibitions are lower online so we're also encouraging parents to talk to their children about what a healthy relationship looks like and how to spot when someone might not be who they say they are."
 
 ALSO READ:

"Darkness" after WhatsApp goes off for 30 minutes

