NAIROBI, KENYA: Local and international key agriculture players will on December 5 meet in Nairobi for a two-day conference to discuss strategies to promote productivity and input use, sustainable livelihoods and inclusivity in agriculture.
 The actors -researchers, government institutions, private sector players and development agencies will share information on transforming agriculture in order to achieve inclusive growth and sustainable livelihoods.  
 The conference is being organised by the Tegemeo Institute of Agricultural Policy and Development, Egerton University.
 Timothy Njagi, a senior fellow researcher with Tegemeo Institute said deliberations during the forum will seek for strategies aimed at moving the agriculture sector and country forward.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “We will revolve the discussions on transforming agriculture for inclusive growth and sustainable livelihoods, crops productivity, transforming agriculture under the devolved system of governance, challenges facing soil fertility and land tenure systems in Kenya,” said Dr. Njagi.     
 The conference comes a time when the agriculture sector in Kenya is grappling with many challenges such as crop infestations by fall army worms, post-harvest losses, erratic rainfall, low investments, uncoordinated policy implementation and impact of the climate change.     
  “In a devolved system, and to continue playing its critical role in the economy, agriculture must be transformed to cope with the changing production, marketing and policy environments, and hence ensure broad, inclusive and sustainable growth. In addition, stakeholders need to consider agriculture’s contribution to food and nutrition security in a holistic manner,” said Dr. Njagi.
 The conference will further deliberate on how agriculture needs to be transformed to cope with the changing production, marketing and policy environments and thus ensure broad, inclusive and sustainable growth.
 Kenya faced the worst food deficit following the prolonged drought of 2016/17 food production year. The acute food shortage prompted government to introduce a sh6 billion maize programme in order to tame skyrocketing food prices in the local market.  
 Njagi in statement observed that the sector requires new thinking so that adequate food is produced to feed the surging population.
