The last Kenya census was held in 2009 and it showed that there are about 1.3 million people living with disabilities in Kenya. These are people facing challenges in their day to day activities due to limitations in sight, speech, physical or mental capabilities.
 They face adversity every day of their lives due to stigmatization, isolation and neglect by the very society that is supposed to look out for them. 
 ALSO READ:

Despair to hope: Man’s moving tale of triumph despite all odds

 In this day and age of knowledge and enlightenment we still see stories of children with disabilities locked up and hidden away from view by their parents and guardians.
 Disabilities have been associated with bad omens and curses which further add on to the stigma. It is unfortunate that not only do they have to deal with their own feelings of inadequacy, they also have to contend with an unforgiving society for things that are beyond their control.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 This is a gross violation of their human rights and further keeps them away from essential amenities such as education.
 Giving people in all parts of the world the support they need to lift themselves out of poverty in all its manifestations is the very essence of sustainable development goals. It is the first of the SDG goals: End poverty in all its form everywhere.
 Access to education is a fundamental right that will help alleviate poverty yet a lot of people living with disabilities do not have access to quality education. And the ones that do face more challenges due to inadequate facilities that should aid and ease their movement such as wheelchairs and spectacles.
 Majority of building in the country lack ramps that ease access for people using wheelchairs. The number of institutions and teachers available to take care of children with special needs is dismal.
 In the last few years, people living with disabilities have come a long way. The number of schools that cater to their specific needs have gone up. A respectable number of companies have also adopted policies to encourage inclusion and diversity.
 So how do we ensure that PWDs are integrated in all aspects of life including socially, politically, economically and culturally? 
 ALSO READ:

Communication Authority faults Safaricom over Masoko

 Currently, there are 92 people with special needs working at Safaricom which constitutes 1.7% of the total work force. Our goal is to have 5% employees living with disabilities by 2020.
 To achieve this, Safaricom plans on profiling the already existing staff with PWDs by reviewing their experience and qualifications and placing them in roles they excel in across the organization.  We will avail more opportunities for other people living with disabilities to come on board.
 Subsequently, through various umbrella bodies for people living with disabilities, candidates interested in joining Safaricom will be identified and after an interview process successful candidates will be absorbed.
 Through a four pronged strategy, inclusivity and diversity amongst the employees will be assured, regardless of their situation and conditions.
 One of the strategies is language, whereby 380 employees across the country are trained in basic sign language in retail stores to ease communication. The organization will also continue celebrating diversity and further encourage staff to share stories through the existing channels. Currently, plans are underway to develop symbols for diversity and inclusion.
 Externally, Safaricom has engaged in various projects to uplift conditions especially in schools for children with special needs.
 One such initiative is the Kipawa Project, a collaboration between the Enterprise Business Unit (EBU) and the National Council for People With Disabilities (NCPWD), which provides much needed amenities to special schools with PWDs. Another is the Pamoja Projects, an initiative by Safaricom Foundation that encourages staff to give back to the society through projects that benefit the society. 
 ALSO READ:

CA forces mobile operators to share money transfer infrastructure

 And another one that I am especially proud of is a new M-PESA service that will enable our visually impaired customers to undertake their M-PESA transactions via an interactive voice response. It will empower our customers to be in control of their M-PESA transactions.
