Industrial capacity cooperation between China and Africa is poised to grow stronger, following the opening of the first China-Africa Industrial Capacity Cooperation Exposition in Nairobi, Kenya.
 The three-day expo will provide a platform for overall exchange as well as intensified cooperation between Chinese and   African   enterprises.  This  is  in  addition  to encouraging  more   Chinese  businesses  to  invest  in  Africa,  in  efforts to  help  the continent to accelerate its industrialization process. 
 ALSO READ:

Why Kenya is hosting China-Africa Industry Capacity Cooperation Expo

 The  expo  is  expected to  show China’s  small  and  medium-sized  enterprises  the investment opportunities available in the  East African  market and  encourage the development of trading  and business partnerships with local players.
 These enterprises are expected to drive the “stage of transformation and upgrading” In the China-Africa industrial capacity cooperation.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 According  to He Cailong, the  head  of the  Chinese delegation and  president of China International  Exhibition   Center   Group   Corp,  the   expo   is  designed  to   enhance China-Africa pragmatic cooperation as well as strengthen the  continent’s  industrial capacity to take  advantage of numerous opportunities provided  by the Belt and Road Initiative.
 He   says   industrial   capacity   cooperation   will help   to   speed up   the   pace of infrastructural improvement in Africa and promote regional economic development. “More employment opportunities will also be created, and the continent will be able to realize sustainable development.  The friendship between Africans and Chinese will also be consolidated,” he adds.
 Li Xuhang,  the  charge d’affaires  at  the  Chinese embassy in Kenya,  says  it is  in the best  interest  of  China   and   other   developing  countries  to  strengthen  industrial capacity cooperation. African countries are mostly in the early stages of economic takeoff and urgently need large amounts of capital, equipment and technology, which China can provide, Li adds.
 Li says the expo will provide a platform for Chinese enterprises looking for business opportunities in Africa. It will also provide a platform for African businesses in need of foreign capital and technology links.
 Africans should take full advantage of the opportunities provided by China so they can achieve their industrialization goals, Li adds.
 Li notes that Kenya is one of the demonstration countries of China-Africa industrial capacity cooperation, with advantages of geography, industrial foundation and legal reforms.
 Adan Mohamed, the Cabinet secretary for the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Cooperatives, says the forum is an indication that China has a lot of confidence in Kenya and is committed to taking the partnership to a greater level.
 “As the regional   business hub, Kenya prides itself in attracting investors.  Many investors are also interested in choosing the country as their investment destination because of its strong strategic location on the continent,” he says.
 Mohamed says the partnership and the linkage between the Chinese and Kenyan
 Business communities are one of the strongest on the continent, and the country looks forward to taking it to the next level.
 “We are confident that business communities all over the world would be looking for business environments that are friendly, predictable and competitive to do business, and we are confident as a country to be able to provide those necessary conditions to drive this partnership further,” he adds.
 George  Kiondo, a member of the Kenya National  Chamber of Commerce and Industry, says Kenya is offer good  prospects for businesses.
 “The private  sector in Kenya  is vibrant  and  in good  health, making  the  country  a promising  place   to   do   business,  with   growing   markets  and   good   investment opportunities.  A thriving private sector is central to achieving the country’s vision 2030,” he says.
 Noting  that  the  private  sector is the  main  engine  of economic growth, Kiondo says the  Kenya National  Chamber of Commerce and  Industry is committed to promoting growth  in the  private  sector by supporting platforms like the  China-Africa industrial Capacity  Cooperation Expo to enable its members to create meaningful networks. “Kenya  and   China,  including   the  private   sectors,  collaboratively  joined  hands to launch  the  expo  in order  to promote trade  and  investment for the  mutual benefit of both  countries. We should therefore ensure that we derive substantial benefits from the forum,” Kiondo says.
 He adds that expanding and diversifying Kenya’s export base is crucial to economic stability, so it is necessary to establish strong trade relations with China, since it has high potential for importing goods from Kenya.
 However, he says, “Efforts are required to address the trade imbalance between the two countries.”
