Each police officer will contribute Sh1,000 to raise Sh60 million for the construction of a girls’ secondary school at Gilgil, Nakuru County.
 Utumishi Girls will admit students whose parents work in the National Police Service. It will be constructed next to Utumishi Boys, which opened in 1992 and majorly admits students whose parents are police officers.
 Administration Police officers have theirs too - Utawala Academy based in Embakasi area.
 The directive to the about 60,000 officers in the Kenya police is aimed at raising Sh60 million for the construction of the school.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 The money will be used to construct two classes, a dormitory, kitchen, and administration block.
 Utumishi Boys was also constructed through similar contributions. A plan to construct Utumishi Hospital has not taken off 10 years after it was mooted.
 The idea to construct a girls’ school was discussed during the Form One selection for Utumishi Boys at Vigilance House last Thursday.
 Check-off system
 “Members in attendance agreed that this was a noble idea which needed to be realised as soon as possible,” says an internal memo signed by Moses Kikulu on behalf of the commandant of the Anti Stock Theft Unit.
 “They agreed that every serving officer would contribute Sh1,000 (for 10 months). The money shall be contributed through check-off system at source at the rate of Sh100 per month,” reads the memo.
 But some officers, especially those in the low ranks, have opposed the plan.
 They are concerned that the girls’ school, just like Utumishi Boys, will be the preserve of senior officers’ children.
 Some say the service should have asked for the money from the Government.
 “Nobody has consulted us and since it is going to be a government school, the money should come from the Government,” said one officer.
 But another officer said the school would help many. “They should be happy we are planning to take care of the future angels. Who is complaining about Sh100 which cannot even buy you breakfast?” a senior officer asked.
