Two young girls between the age of 15 and 24 are infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) every hour in Uganda.
 A worrying prevalence that the country marked the December 1 World Aids Day with a goal to reach men, girls and young women to reduce the infection. 
 ALSO READ:

New hurdle as sex workers battle HIV

 Even as the celebrations went ahead at transit town Kole in Northern Uganda, witty Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni took to Twitter to advise his 641,000 followers on how they could ‘block’ the disease.
 ‘Many of the diseases would be blocked forever if people ensured proper hygiene, good nutrition, slept under treated mosquito nets and got immunised. Also, avoid promiscuous behaviour and alcoholism because you risk catching diseases such as HIV/AIDS.’ He posted.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

  
 Museveni would also share that it is due to his teetotaler lifestyle that he has hit 73 years of age.
 “..I do not drink alcohol. I have been here for the last 30 years and all this time you have never heard that Museveni is sick and is hospitalised. I do not have time for sickness,” he added.
 The former soldier has on numerous occasions advocated for lifestyle change among Ugandans to prevent diseases.
 During the launch of a local language version of the Bible, the President insisted on what he described as basic health tips to live long.
 “Most diseases that overwhelm these hospitals and health centres can be prevented if the people can improve on their hygiene and sanitation, because 75 per cent of cases registered are preventable,” Museveni said. 
 ALSO READ:

18 children infected with HIV every hour in 2016- UNICEF

 Many of the diseases would be blocked forever if people ensured proper hygiene, good nutrition, slept under treated mosquito nets and got immunised. Also, avoid promiscuous behaviour and alcoholism because you risk catching diseases such as HIV/AIDS. pic.twitter.com/NY0jLpYinF— Yoweri K Museveni (@KagutaMuseveni) December 1, 2017