The National Super Alliance (NASA) leader Raila Odinga arrived in Kisumu- his home turf to a heroic welcome and tight security.
 This is the first time that Raila is making a return to Nyanza after he skipped the repeat October 26 general election which was decreed by the Supreme Court. 
 ALSO READ:

County passes People's Assembly bill

 Raila landed at around 6.30pm at the Kisumu International Airport and was received by a host of leaders led by Kisumu governor Prof Peter Anyang’ Nyong’o.
 He was entertained by a traditional nyatiti dance troop at the airport for few minutes before he left as a huge crowd surged toward his entourage upon learning his presence.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Shouts of Baba! Baba! Hero! Hero rent the air as the ecstatic crowd yelled at him with faces of joy, hope and resilience.
 Some were heard shouting we stand with you, but even as they did so he just flushed a humble smile. Nyong’o, too, smiled as the hawk eyed security cleared his traffic way.
 Earlier, the Opposition leader’s spouse Mama Ida Odinga flew in town and then proceeded to the burial of former Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma’s mother at in Ahero.
 Raila was accompanied by Kisumu West MP Olago Aluoch and NASA Presidential campaign team led by Bob Madanje. He moved straight to his Opoda home in Bondo.
 Sources privy, to his itinerary, were cagey to disclose what he planned to do on Satu, but other sources, claimed that he will spend most of the time tomorrow at home.
 Raila just wants to relax with his family and plan for his next course of action in a serene atmosphere devoid of political interference. 
 ALSO READ:

Miguna: Those praising Matiang'i are delusional

 According to Madanje, details of his program will be unveiled to the enthusiastic members of the public today. He ruled out public rallies in the meantime.
 Raila has assured his fans that come December 12 then he will also be sworn in but in a bloodless coup reminiscent of Zimbabwe’s overthrow of 37 years old rule of Robert Mugabe.
 But many are still looking forward to see how he will do it and where. Already, President Uhuru Kenyatta has been sworn in and is in the process of appointing his cabinet to start work.
 President Uhuru has vowed to reach out to the NASA supporters and find how they can form a government of national unity.
 The primary aim of doing so is to reconcile the political differences among Kenyans.
 But Opposition leaders have vowed not to recognize the leadership of President Kenyatta saying it is not legitimate.
 Although, President Uhuru says they were legitimately elected in office and that they followed all the due process clearly, NASA is opposed to his leadership saying it was bias against all Kenyans. 
 ALSO READ:

Spare a thought for the victims of NASA's boycott campaign

 On Friday, Opposition unveiled a seven-member committee to guide the coalition on the way forward of the People's Assembly to press for a people driven government.
 The team is chaired by economist David Ndii and will be responsible for coordinating programmes of all county assemblies that have so far formed the People’s Assemblies.
 The Ndii team is expected to hand over its report to the NASA principals before December 12, a date the opposition leader Raila has announced he will be 'sworn in' as the people's president.
 The committee will also provide a list of activities for December 12 when the coalition plans to swear in Raila.
 He said so far 15 counties have passed the motion and others will follow soon.
