National Super Alliance (NASA) has rejected a proposal for a national conversation by a section of the business and religious community.
 In a press statement Friday afternoon NASA said they cannot be part of the conversation as proposed by a section of the business and religious community which is meant to promote President Uhuru Kenyatta’s agenda of government socio-economic development agenda for vision 2030. 
 ALSO READ:

Anger over EALA nominations prompts rare Jubilee, NASA unity in Parliament

 The opposition leaders say they are ready to discuss issues on electoral reforms in the country since election crises are political and the correct framework for addressing them is electoral justice.
 “We note that the framing of the agenda dovetails nicely with the position adopted by Uhuru Kenyatta that he is open to debate with anyone and everyone on development. We conclude therefore that this group is holding brief for Uhuru Kenyatta. This enterprise is a euphemism for ‘accept and move on’. We are not accepting, and we are not moving on,” read part of the NASA statement.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 According to NASA, free and fair democratic election is the means by which citizens of a republic form Government.
 “Subversion of elections is a failure of the social contract that Kenyans have signed up to otherwise known as the Constitution of Kenya 2010.”
 In the statement, NASA declared that post- independence political status quo must be uprooted for democracy and the rule of law to take root in Kenya.
 NASA has defended its agenda on formation of people’s assembly saying that the process, which they set in motion with the Coast People's Leaders Forum in Kilifi on Sunday 17 December 2017, is founded on Article 1(2) of the Constitution namely, the right of the people to exercise their sovereign power directly.
 “We wish to reassure Kenyans that exercising our sovereign power sitting as the People's Assemblies, we can chart our political destiny and forestall the electoral authoritarianism that the Jubilee administration is hell bent on restoring in this country so as to sustain the status quo. The sovereign will and power of the people will prevail as it has throughout history.”
 Peoples Assembly Organizing Committee includes Mutakha Kangu, Hamida Kibwana, Koitamet ole Kina, Peter Mathuki, David Ndii, Oduor Ong’wen, Judy Sijeny and Bramwel Simiyu. 
 ALSO READ:

Jubilee's attitude fueling secession calls by the Opposition

