A man stabbed his 4-months old son dead and slashed his wife severally after a quarrel picked up and consequently locked the house they were residing and set it on fire on the night of December 6.  
 The incident occurred at Nguluni market, Nduluku in Mbooni East Sub-county, Makueni County. 
 ALSO READ:

Chaos after mob mistakenly lynches two men

 Confirming the incident, the area police boss Mr. Peter Njeru said the man had intentions of killing the whole family and self but when neighbors heard of the skirmish and saw smoke off the house they came for a distress call prompting the man to escape.
 “The man picked a machete, which he used to inflict a severe cut on the right forearm of his wife leaving the arm by a strip of skin and several deep cuts on the head”, said the OCPD.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 He added, “The man transferred his anger to his son cutting his forehead and gorging the eye and fled the scene”.
 The man identified as Zabron Muisyo Mutua, 40, was caught and lynched by locals some 2-kilometers away from the scene hiding in the forest where he tried to brandish a machete to scare away the crowd.
 This is as his 31 year old wife Miriam Kalunda and son were trapped in the single room as local frantically tried to break into the house.
 The child was found dead as the wife was recurred and taken to Kisau sub-county hospital before she was transferred to Makueni Level 4 hospital for further treatment with serious deep cuts.
 The area chief Mr. Jeremiah Makau disclosed that the two had married recently and the time they had lived together in that region no reports on family feud had been reported.
 “The man is from Machakos, but the lady is from my village and since they married and settled in a room at the market no family dispute had been reported to me and the neighbors reported that they were living well till yesterday when the scuffle emerged”, said Makau. 
 ALSO READ:

PS Monica Juma questioned over partial Thwake Dam compensation

