THIKA, KENYA: Four suspects charged with stealing Sh 52 million from Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) Thika branch last month were on Thursday arraigned in court and charged with more offences.
 Halford Munene, his brother Charles Mwangi, Julius Ndung’u and Shem Karani were charged with being in possession of suspected stolen property. 
 ALSO READ:

KCB corner poor Impala: Bankers in sweet revenge against hosts as they reclaim Floodlit title

 Munene, Mwangi and Ndungu’u were charged with being in possession of 200 identity cards, 200 orange sim cards, 1239, MTN sim cards, seven CPUs and 305 telecommunication authority cards suspected to be stolen property.
 Karani was charged with being in possession of three identity cards also suspected to have been stolen that were found with him in Mtwapa Mombasa where he was arrested.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 The four who were arraigned before Thika Chief Magistrate Teresia Murigi denied the charges.
 Defence Counsel Waithera Mwangi representing the first three accused requested the court to order the prosecution to furnish her with copies of the charge sheets, witness statements and exhibits to be used in the case to help her adequately prepare for the case.
 The lawyer also applied for the review of bail terms saying her clients have been unable to raise the bond given by the court in order to secure their freedom.
 The four who are still in custody were recently released by the court on a Sh4 million bond each with a surety of a similar amount.
 “My clients have been unable to raise the bond since they come from a very humble background.
 They are praying that the court grants them bond that is within their reach,” the lawyer told the court. 
 ALSO READ:

NSE loses Sh52b as foreigners exit

 She told the court the accused were not a flight risk since two of them were married and having young families’ while the third one was currently engaged.
 The defense counsel informed the court the accused were innocent until proven guilty and added they were ready to obey and abide by the court terms should the bond be reviewed.
 However, Prosecution Counsel Stella Oyagi opposed bail terms review application saying investigations which are likely to unearth more crimes were still ongoing.
 She told the court the ongoing investigations have been able to expose the 200 identity cards adding investigations to establish their owners who were likely to become potential witnesses in the case were ongoing.
 “The prosecution fears that reviewing the bail terms that will pave way for the release of the accused will lead them to interfering with the ongoing investigations. We also fear if released they may continue to perpetrate similar offences.”
 The four were last month charged with the theft of Sh52 million from the bank.
 They were charged that through an underground tunnel they stole Sh52,650,000 between November 18 and 20. 
 ALSO READ:

Regional subsidiaries lift KCB profits to Sh15.1 billion

 The four were also accused of stealing 95 Australian dollars, 185 Euros, 1,630 British pounds, 271,000 Tanzanian shillings, 947,000 Ugandan shillings, $5,781, five Canadian dollars and 40 South African rand.
 The first three accused were also charged with handling stolen property.
 The case was adjourned to December 20 when the pre-bail report will be tabled in court.
