A husband has been accused of murdering his two wives by locking them in a car and setting it alight.
 Deepa Ram, who has been arrested on suspicion of murder, was in the car as the fire started and managed to get out, both his wives were trapped inside with the doors locked, according to police. 
 ALSO READ:

Four dead, six missing after fire guts down Kondele guesthouse 

 Mr Ram, 30, was allowed to marry a second woman Dariva Devi, 22, as his first wife Malu Devi, 26 has special needs.
 He is now accused of killing them both, despite having a son by his first wife and two children by his second.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Sickening footage has emerged of the white family car ablaze on the road as people desperately try to help by throwing buckets of water at it.
 Both women burned to death in the Chittalwana area of Jalore District in northern India.
 Police believe the Mr Ram kept the women locked in the car after he got out and set the fire but tried to make the blaze look like an accident.
 Police officer Teju Singh said: "We received information on Tuesday that a car caught fire and two women who were travelling in it were burnt to death near Shishawa village.
 "We later learned that both women were married to Ram.
 "His first wife was mentally challenged, because of which Ram married a second time. 
 ALSO READ:

Property of unknown value destroyed in Siaya fire

 "After we reached the spot where the car was burning, Ram told us the car accidentally caught fire."
 Officer Singh added: "The families of the women told us that there were frequent domestic fights between the accused and his wives.
 "After further interrogation, we arrested Ram on charges of murdering the women."
 It is reported that during questioning, Ram agreed there had been violence in the home.
 He alleged that the two women had previously conspired to killing him by strangling him.
 He said he was on the way to take the women jewellery shopping when the "accidental" fire broke out.
 The investigation is ongoing. 
 ALSO READ:

Ugandan woman to serve 20 years in jail for acid attack on rival

