 
 The National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC) has threatened court action to challenge a controversial motion on employment recently passed by the Kiambu County Assembly. 
 ALSO READ:

Kilifi MCAs now want 70 per cent jobs for locals after Kiambu example

 The motion compels all public and private businesses and institutions in the region to hire 70 per cent of workers from the dominant ethnic community.
 According to Article 65 (1) (e) of the County Government Act, at least 30 per cent of the vacant posts at entry level should be filled by candidates who are not from the dominant ethnic community in the county.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Accordingly, the law only applies to the opportunities that are within the powers of the County Public Service Board, meaning it only applies to county employees.
 However, the motion by Kiambu directs all public institutions and private entities that are not under the County Public Service Board to employ 70 per cent of workers from the dominant community.
 But NCIC Mr Kaparo condemned the move by Kiambu, saying that it was against the law and a major threat to cohesion efforts in the country.
 Retrogressive exercise
 Kaparo said the county had erred in the interpretation of the Article 65 of the County Government Act, 2012 arguing that it was “retrogressive exercise in futility” and not binding national public and private institutions.
 He lashed out at Kiambu County ward representatives saying they had set a bad precedence for the country adding that his commission will use the legal channels to stop their “foolish” plans. 
 ALSO READ:

Move to hand Kiambu jobs to one community retrogressive

 Speaking in Nairobi yesterday in the company of Commission Secretary Hassan Sheikh Mohamed and other NCIC officials, Kaparo said it was ironical that leaders who should be bringing Kenyans together were practising discrimination.
 At the same time, Kaparo condemned the Opposition for threatening to launch secession call in the country, saying it will also damage cohesion.
 “How more careless can we be? What will breaking the country into many units lead us to? This is recklessness!” said Kaparo.
 He urged political leaders to act responsibly by bringing Kenyans together.
 Kaparo said they had sent out advisories to counties to stick to the employment laws.
