The Judiciary in Kwale was still in shock yesterday following the brazen kidnapping of a magistrate outside a supermarket on Thursday evening.
 A lone, knife-wielding man attacked Chief Magistrate Doreen Mulekyo as she went back to her car following a visit to a supermarket in Diani at about 7pm. 
 ALSO READ:

Court tells MCAs to keep off

 The magistrate raised an alarm, and freed herself from the attacker who fled with her car. Luckily, the magistrate did not suffer any physical injury but was left deeply traumatised.
 A police report said the magistrate left her car “and the man took it (and drove away for about one and a half kilometres), later dumping it outside Papillon Lagoon.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “He tried to flee with her handbag which contained valuables, but he later dumped them in a bush.”
 The police classified the attack as a “random incident of robbery.” Money and a laptop that had been stolen were recovered and handed over to the magistrate.
 Only the magistrate’s cellphone was missing after the vehicle and her handbag were recovered from the fleeing assailant.
 Chief Justice David Maraga condemned the attack and demanded enhanced security for judicial officers.
 He wrote on his Twitter handle that he was disturbed by the attack: “Last night’s carjacking of Kwale Chief Magistrate Doreen Mulekyo was shocking to the entire Judiciary.
 “We thank God that she escaped unhurt. I call upon the police to ensure the culprits are arrested. We want to see better security for all our staff, and indeed all Kenyans. We promise enhanced security over the festive season,” he said. 
 ALSO READ:

Former MCA to serve 30-day civil jail

 Msambweni OCPD Joseph Chebusit said detectives were going after the attacker, including identifying him through fingerprints on the car, and that he would soon be arrested.
 “We took the car to Diani Police Station for dusting. We have good leads as to who might have been involved and will soon find him,” he said.
 He added that there have been no carjacking cases in the recent past.
