The parents of a 10-month-old baby who was found with 14 needles lodged in her buttocks were yesterday charged with torturing their daughter.
 Isaac Wanyoike, 42, and his wife Jacinta Ndunge, 31, were accused of subjecting their child to torture by inserting sewing needles into her body. 
 ALSO READ:

Shock as doctors remove 13 needles from baby's buttocks

 However, the two denied the charges when they appeared before Thika Principal Magistrate Grace Omodho.
 Other children




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 The baby's father maintained his innocence, saying he could not have inflicted harm on his child. The couple has four children.
 "This child is mine and I cannot inflict harm on any of my children. I have other children who depend on me. I was shocked to learn she had needles in her body. I cannot explain how they got into her body," Mr Wanyoike told court.
 Wanyoike also defended his wife, saying she not have harmed their young daughter.
 Ndunge pleaded with the court to release her so she could breastfeed her child. 
 She told court her breasts were paining since the baby had not suckled since she was arrested on Monday.
 "I am in pain because I have not breastfed my baby since yesterday. I plead with this court to release me so I can feed her," Ms Ndung'e pleaded with the court. 
 ALSO READ:

Not too small to live, let preterm babies thrive by all means possible

 Prosecutor Dorothy Aswani asked the court to allow the police to continue holding the suspects so detectives can visit their home in Kiganjo, record more statements and arrest other suspects.
 The magistrate, however, declined the application and maintained the couple had to take their plea.
 Ms Omodho ordered the couple be remanded until December 11 when the case will be mentioned.
 Wanyoike and his wife were arrested on Monday over suspicion of child abuse.
 Thika children’s officer, Rebecca Kariuki, said Ndunge's explanation when the baby was taken to hospital two weeks ago was unsatisfactory.
 Children's centre
 The baby has already been taken to a children's centre in Thika where she will be staying in the meantime. 
 ALSO READ:

Governor Wahome Gakuru in grisly road accident (photos)

 Ms Kariuki hinted that her department may be forced to "rescue" the couple's other children.
 Last week, doctors removed 13 needles. However, the medics are still grappling with how to remove the remaining one, with fears that its removal might lead to nerve damage.
