Public Service Commission (PSC) Chairperson Margaret Kobia also made it clear that should the Cabinet be dissolved, there would be no vacuum in the civil service.
 “We advertised the posts two months ago but extended the period following the presidential election petition decisions by the Supreme Court,” said Prof Kobia. 
 ALSO READ:

Food: Reason many feel political class has left them behind

 “So far we have received at least 2,000 applications. But we haven’t finalised the shortlisting yet.”
 She said it could take longer than expected to list the nominees for the now vacant PS positions due to law requirements.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Both Article 155(3)(a) of the Constitution and the PSC Act require the commission to recommend persons for nomination and appointment as principal secretaries by the President.
 Unlike Cabinet secretaries who are picked and their names forwarded to Parliament for vetting and approval, PS candidates must undergo a rigorous process.
 “The PSC Act on the appointment of PSs has outlined a number of guidelines that must be adhered to when carrying out the exercise,” said Kobia.
 Competitive recruitment
 The law requires that “within 21 days of a presidential election, the commission shall commence a competitive  recruitment and selection exercise for the purpose of identifying persons to be recommended for nomination by  the President for appointment as a principal secretary".
 She disclosed that National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi and his Senate counterpart Kenneth Lusaka were scheduled for a meeting at State House today to chart a way forward. 
 ALSO READ:

Making distinction between interchangeably used words

 “We will consider publishing the names of the applicants together with the shortlisted candidates this week. It would then take seven days before the next course of action, which is to interview,” she said.
 “The speakers' meeting will advise on the availability of Parliament as we are almost entering the festive season.”
 Kobia disclosed sitting PSs would hand over to the most senior officers in their ministries should the Cabinet be dissolved.
 “There is no lacuna in the PSC. Those senior-most will take over the affairs of the ministries as the recruitment process takes place," she said.
 She said the integrity of the process must be adhered to.
