The National Super Alliance (NASA) has moved its agitation plans for electoral reform a notch higher by naming a team to run the People’s Assembly National Steering Committee.
 The six-member team led by fiery economist Dr David Ndii will guide and facilitate various programs that will be centre of NASA’s agenda amongst other duties, according to former Bungoma Senator Boni Khalwale. 
 ALSO READ:

Miguna: Those praising Matiang'i are delusional

 The taskforce will also look into the systemic governance weaknesses that have precipitated the unfolding political impasse, says the alliance.
 The team comprises; Judy Sijeny, Hamida Kibwana, Dr Mutakha Kangu, Oduor Ong’wen, Koitamet ole Kina and former East African Legislative Assembly  MP Peter Mathuki.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Making the announcement on Friday, Dr Khalwale condemned the  brutality meted on supporters by police saying that it had stop immediately.
 Khalwale said that the Jubilee Government cannot be allowed to continue with its dictatorship saying NASA will continue fighting for democracy and rights of citizens.
 Khalwale was flanked by former Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama and other Opposition leaders at the Okoa Kenya offices, Nairobi.
 Opposition leader Raila Odinga said in October the People’s Assembly would be a broad-based forum consisting of elected leaders and the leadership of other sectors of society in particular workers, civil society, religious leaders, women, youth and economic interest groups.
 Kisumu, Homa Bay, Siaya, Busia, Kakamega, Vihiga, Kitui, Kwale, Makueni and Migori counties have already passed the People's Assembly motions.
 The process has, however, ran into headwinds. 
 ALSO READ:

Spare a thought for the victims of NASA's boycott campaign

 On November 22, the Kitui High Court issued interim orders stopping the 47 county assemblies from legalising formation of the People’s Assemblies.
 Justice Lillian Mutende granted the orders suspending the move until January 25 next year when the matter will be heard inter-party between the petitioner and 50 respondents in the civil suit.
 Justice Mutende’s orders followed the petition filed by Counties Development Group, an NGO, that sought the county assemblies and MCAs to be restrained from constituting special colleges for the appointment or election of members, delegates and observers to the people’s assemblies.
 The Attorney General, the Senate and the National Assembly were named first, second and third respondents respectively in the suit listed as urgent.
 “Notice of motion application dated 20th November 2017 is hereby certified urgent and service thereof dispersed with first instance,” the Judge said.
 Justice Mutende gave leave for the petitioner to serve the orders on the respondents and notice of filing the petition by substituted service in The Standard and Daily Nation newspapers.
 The NGO’s lawyer, Mansur Issa, told the court that his client was a dully registered non-governmental organisation whose objectives included the  support of county assemblies in the implementation of devolved system of government to achieve improved governance and economic development. 
 ALSO READ:

Youths most affected by political unrest across the country

 Mr Issa’s application asked the court to bar the county assemblies from constituting people’s assemblies or in any way participating in the assemblies, implementing the Motions tabled and moved before the county assemblies, proposing, ratifying or adopting recommendations for amending, modifying or in any way changing the constitution without complying with Article 257 of the constitution pending the inter-party hearing.
 NASA leader Raila Odinga announced establishment of peoples’ assembly, a broad based forum to discuss issues affecting Kenyans.
 The people’s assembly will be a forum of elected leaders, members of the civil society and religious leaders who will be discussing issues affecting Kenyans and pass resolutions that can be debated in county assemblies.
