Baringo Senator Gideon Moi has awarded  an honorary doctorate in Humane Letters by the Kabarak University during its 13th graduation ceremony on Friday, December 22.
 The senator was honoured for his exemplary service to humanity during his time in government and in his political career that began in 2002. 
 ALSO READ:

Kabarak varsity gets ISO award

 Among his most recognised service is in authoring the Local Content Bill as the Chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Energy. The law has been described as the bes that has ever been drafted in the extractive sector.
 Senator Moi was also recognised for being a key player in promoting peace among the conflicting communities in Baringo and his belief in the power of assisting the less-fortunate, especially Baringo where he represents the people.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Rising political star
 Senator Moi ventured into politics 15 years ago where he made history as the only Member of Parliament to go unopposed representing Baringo Central Constituency.
 As an MP, his star rose when he was selected a Member of Parliamentary Select Committee on Energy, Communication and Public Works where the committee members elected him the Chairman confirming the confidence the MPs had in him.
 In 2013, Senator Moi was elected Senator to represent the larger Baringo County and in 2017, he was re-elected.
 Besides being a Senator, he  is also the national chairman of the country's independence party Kenya Africa National Union (Kanu), a position he has held since 2013.  The position has been previously held by Kenya's founding President Jomo Kenyatta, Second President Daniel Arap Moi and the current President, Uhuru Kenyatta.
 Early Life and Education 
 ALSO READ:

Gideon steals limelight as he welcomes VIPs

 Senator Gideon Kipsielei Towett Moi was born on October 22, 1963 in Nakuru to former President Mzee Daniel Toroitich Arap Moi and the late Mama Lena Moi being the last-born in the family of seven children.
 He began his primary education in 1970 then proceeded for his O-levels at Strathmore College between 1977 and 1980.
 In 1981, Senator Moi proceeded for his A-levels at St. Mary's School Nairobi where he cleared in 1982 and then proceeded to The University of Salford, Manchester in United Kingdom for his university education where he obtained a Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics.
 Work and Business Ventures
 After graduating from University in the UK, Gideon returned to Kenya where he ventured into family business and has been instrumental in overseeing and expansion of a number of business ventures that have contributed to job creation and economic growth of the country.
 Service to Humanity
 During the First House of Senate, he served as the Chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Energy where he authored the Local Content Bill described as the best and most progressive law that has ever been drafted in the extractive sector. 
 ALSO READ:

Uhuru visits Moi in Kabarak (photos)

 The local Content Bill will put to an end conflicts that have rocked communities in oil and gas rich areas. It ensures minerals do not become a curse to local communities as has been the case in most oil producing nations in Africa.
 Senator Moi also was instrumental in lobbying for Baringo County to be included in the list of beneficiaries of Equalization Fund which came to fruition in July this year after the county was left out in the initial classification by Commission on Revenue Allocation in 2013.
  With the help of his father Mzee Daniel arap  Moi and President Uhuru Kenyatta, he was able to secure funding of over Sh600million from development partners that will be injected towards production of geothermal in parts of Baringo.
 His support for education has spurred access to education by the poor and marginalised. Hundreds bright, but needy students, have gone ahead to live their dreams-blossoming in their diverse fields of specialisation in what could have been a pipedream were it not for Senator Moi's kind hand.
 During his first term in Senate (March 2013-August 2017), Senator Moi embarked on unmatched philanthropic activities where he spent over Sh100million to support individuals, churches, health facilities and schools in Baringo County. This gift of compassion is a shining path to Senator Moi's lasting legacy in his belief in the power of assisting the less fortunate in the society to have a brighter tomorrow.
 Since getting into politics in 2002, Senator Moi has been in the forefront of propagating for peace in pastoralist regions of the country where peaceful co-existence has been elusive over the years.
 Through his leadership, he has been able to bring together elders from the feuding communities to find a long lasting solution which is now bearing fruits as attacks among the pastoralists have reduced as they embrace new lifestyles.
