Canadian-based lawyer – Miguna Miguna – has taken a swipe at Education Cabinet Secretary Dr Fred Matiang’i hours after the CS announced that the Government was developing a database to keep track of academic qualifications to eliminate fake credentials.
 According to the man with the same name twice, Matiang’i was taking Professor George Magoha’s credit for restructuring the education sector. 
 ALSO READ:

We will act within the law, Odinga says

 Matiang’i, who doubles as an Acting Interior CS, was also accused of spearheading police brutality that was witnessed in the electioneering period.
 “Those praising @FredMatiangi are delusional. The education sector hasn't been restructured by @FredMatiangi. He is taking credit belonging to Prof. Magoha. He has militarised, mungikirised and chinkororised the @PoliceKE. He has made barbarism his IMPRIMATUR,” said the controversial political commentator.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Matiang’i said on Thursday the database would facilitate easy verification of academic papers presented to the Council of University Education (CUE).
 “The agencies that are here from January as soon as we complete this process of framework regulations, our next action is to now begin to develop the database so that’s it’s not a problem for anyone to trace qualifications,” he directed.
 “The database shall contain information on registered unit standards, registered qualification, accredited education and training providers, validated learning programmes, recognized foreign qualifications, learner records and other particulars necessary,” the CS added.
 He spoke at a stakeholders’ forum organised by the Kenya National Qualifications Authority (KNQA).
 The University of Nairobi (UoN) de-registered Meru Senator Mithika Linturi as a law student for presenting fake papers to get admission.
 According to the university’s Senate, Linturi’s degree from a university in India that he used to secure admission at UoN in 2014 was forged. 
 ALSO READ:

MP asks Raila to stop threats

 “Universities admit students on the basis of their qualifications and if it is discovered that you forged your document, then the institution is at liberty to stop you from continuing with your studies,” said an officer at the institution.
 The Senator was supposed to graduate this month.
