The year 2017 has been a tough one for Kenyans in every sense. Apart from the harsh economic times, the intriguing political season left the country divided at a level never witnessed before. We came face to face with nerve-wracking negative ethnicity in the wake of hate messages on social media, political violence and vitriol that undermined every principle that underpins our nationhood.
 But as the year ends and Christmas beckons, we can derive solace from the fact that as a people, our fate remains tied to our motherland. The festive spirit should inspire us to forgive, reach out and reflect on national challenges and our roles in addressing them. 
 ALSO READ:

Study: Lives at risk over poor mechanics' skills

 President Kenyatta and Opposition chief Raila Odinga should lead reconciliation efforts, knowing there can never be harm in sitting down to discuss what needs to be done to heal the country. Tough talk and chest-thumping is of no use.
 Patriotism can never be bought. This season should set a new beginning for every Kenyan. The true meaning of nationhood should reside within our hearts even if we hold different political standpoints. But also, Christmas should never revolve around merry making alone.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Regardless of one’s religion, interests or culture, we should celebrate fully aware of the momentous tasks awaiting us in January 2018. Better financial management will be an asset now. There have been cases where people get disoriented after a wasteful holiday season. We can say with certainty that this season will not be without disruptions.
 Only last week, more than 50 people died in road accidents largely blamed on human error. Insecurity is also a conspicuous challenge. We urge caution by every Kenyan. It is a worthwhile endeavour to stay safe this season. Depending on how we carry ourselves, Christmas and New Year can be a source of joy or distress.
 It’s a time to support the needy and engage in activities that add value to the quality of life of our nation. Donating more than receiving will deliver the magic of the season. The truth of the matter is that we need each other.
