Jubilee Party has finally drawn its list of representatives to various parliamentary committees.
 This was done during a meeting between President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto hosted at State House Nairobi yesterday. 
 ALSO READ:

Jubilee blunder may lead to 3 million title deeds being revoked

 The lists of committee representatives for various parties are set for approval in both the National Assembly and the Senate this morning.
 During a Jubilee Parliamentary Group meeting, the party leadership shared out the committee chairmanship positions, with party loyalists being the biggest beneficiaries.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 The exercise also saw Uhuru and Ruto reward areas that voted overwhelmingly for them. Regional balancing was also at play.
 But the State House meeting ended without a common position on the election of the party’s membership to the East Africa Legislative Assembly (EALA).
 Also, the legislators pleaded with the two leaders to allow them to independently choose their representatives to the Parliamentary Service Commission (PSC).
 Multiple sources told The Standard that while Uhuru had to tell the legislators that they would re-consider the list they had presented for the PSC, a section of legislators protested inclusion, in the list, of MPs who had previously served in the Commission.
 Choose members
 “We agreed on the leadership of committees as they were read to us although there was discomfort on some of those chosen to chair some of them. On PSC, we openly told them to allow us to choose members we want. These ones, we told them, deals with the welfare of MPs and it is only fair they give us the leeway to have our say,” revealed an MP from Central Kenya who did not wish to be named due to the sensitivity of the matter. 
 ALSO READ:

Jubilee MPs oppose Uhuru’s Parliamentary Service Commission nominees

 But despite his promise to reconsider the list, Majority Leader in the National Assembly later gave a notice for approval of the same list comprising of MPs Naomi Shaban, Adan Keynan from the National Assembly and Senators Beth Mugo and Aaron Cheruiyot to be Jubilee’s nominees to PSC.
 Keynan, the Eldas MP and Mrs Mugo, a nominated senator, were commissioners in the 11th Parliament.
 The fate of the list, which also includes NASA’s proposed members to the Commission, including MPs Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), Gladys Wanga (Homabay) and Vihiga Senator George Khaniri, will be decided today when MPs vote to approve or reject nominees.
 On the EALA election slated for this morning, Uhuru is said to have asked the MPs to pick any of the 15 candidates, saying they are all competent to fill the positions in the regional assembly.
 Uhuru’s Kiambu County was a major winner in the sharing of committee leadership, with the President asking the Jubilee team to endorse Kiambaa MP Paul Koinange to chair the powerful Security Committee. Kikuyu's Kimani Ichung’wa, a key defender of the Jubilee administration, was rewarded with the chairmanship of the Budget Committee.
 Pokot South MP David Pkosing, a close ally of Ruto, who also championed one of the cases for the acquittal of the Jubilee leaders from the ICC, was given the much coveted Transport docket. Katoo Ole Metito landed the Defence and Foreign Relations committee.
 Nakuru Town East MP David Gikaria was given the Energy Committee, another position viewed as lucrative and highly eyed, in what is seen as a reward to Nakuru County for their support to Jubilee. Kieni’s Kanini Kega of Nyeri County was given the Trade and Industry committee, one of the new committees formed in the 12th Parliament. 
 ALSO READ:

MPs meet over House committees, PSC

 Kitui South MP Rachel Nyamai, who overcame a strong Wiper Party wave to reclaim her seat on Jubilee ticket, was handed the powerful Lands docket, while Maara’s Kareke Mbiuki got the Environment position.
 Ali Wario of Bura landed the Labour committee chairmanship, Sabina Chege from Murang’a taking the Health Committee, while Julius Melly of Tinderet took the Education committee chairmanship.
 Jubilee legislators
 Others are Joseph Limo (Kipkelion East- Finance), Jeremiah Kioni (Ndaragwa-Cohesion), Gladys Shollei (Uasin Gishu County MP- Delegated Legislation), William Cheptumo ( Baringo North- Justice and Legal Affairs). The positions are however subject to the approval by the House today, after all the Jubilee legislators were each allocated the committee on which to sit.
 The powerful Public Accounts Committee and Public Investment Committee (PIC) which are to be chaired by the Opposition are yet to be agreed upon.
 However, the sources told the Standard that Mvita MP Albuldswamad Sharriff is poised to be the chair PIC while Sakwa Bunyasi (Nambale) and a close Musalia Mudavadi ally, is set to be PAC chairman.
 Meanwhile, Speaker Ken Lusaka has named Senators Cleophas Malala (Kakamega), Rose Nyamunga (nominated), Steve Lelegwe (Samburu) and Margaret Kamar (Uasin Gishu) to the Speaker's panel.
 [Story by Roselyne Obala, Rawlings Otieno, Moses Njagih and Daniel Psirmoi] 
 
 ALSO READ:

Kenya's nine EALA MPs to be named today

