Former international footballer George Weah and Vice-President Joseph Boakai joined voters in casting their ballots in Liberia yesterday.
 This is as they went head-to-head in a delayed run-off vote for the presidency. 
 ALSO READ:

Liberia's Liberty Party to appeal election fraud case to Supreme Court

 Voters were choosing a successor to President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, who is stepping down after serving 12 years as Africa's first elected female head of state, in the West African country's first democratic transition since 1944.
 The vote was delayed for seven weeks due to legal challenges lodged by Boakai's Unity Party against the electoral commission over the conduct of the first round of voting.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Weah starred in top-flight European football teams Paris Saint-Germain and AC Milan in the 1990s before playing briefly for Chelsea and Manchester City in England later in his career.
 Polling stations
 He and Boakai voted in polling stations near their homes in Paynesville, a suburb of Monrovia, the capital of this nation of 4.6 million people.
 Both declared victory was theirs for the taking.
 "We're going to win! Because the people believe in us and they know we represent the best," said Boakai, a public servant of four decades standing, seen as the establishment candidate.
 But Weah was similarly resolute that his second run for the presidency would be successful. 
 ALSO READ:

Secret Chebukati affidavit that is under lock and key

 "The victory is certain, I am sure that I am going to win," he told journalists after casting his ballot.
 Weah alleges that electoral fraud cost him the presidency in 2005 and the vice-presidency in 2011.
 His CDC party contested the results in 2005 and 2011, but has refrained so far this time.
 After voting on Tuesday, Weah warned that "what happened in 2005 and 2011 cannot be repeated".
 Boakai also sounded a cautionary note, saying he would accept the result provided the National Elections Commission "meet all of the standards".
 Boakai waged a bitter legal battle over problems with queue control and voter identification in the October 10 first round.
 On Tuesday polling stations displayed voter lists as a mark of transparency for the run-off. 
 ALSO READ:

President Uhuru Kenyatta declared winner of repeat presidential election

 "This time everything is OK. It was very easy for me to find my voting place," said voter Gabriel Peters as he cast his vote.
