The ‘battle’ between Governor Mike Sonko and his predecessor has reared its head again.
 Dr Evans Kidero on Thursday accused Mr Sonko of taking credit for projects he initiated during his term at City Hall. 
 ALSO READ:

City staff to get pay before Christmas

 Kidero told Metropolitan that he was behind the setting up of the recently launched data centre, automation of revenue collection, as well as the development of the Nairobi County Integrated Development Plan.
 The former governor said the centre cost Sh1.3 billion and he had overseen its development since inception. President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy, William Ruto, were present during the launch.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “By April, the data centre was complete after having negotiated with the World Bank in 2014 to fund it and all that was remaining was the launch,” said Kidero.
 County ICT Executive Charles Kerich last week stated that the project had been put on hold after the World Bank pulled out without giving any clear explanation.
 He reiterated that the World Bank had contracted PricewaterhouseCoopers to purchase state-of-the-art machinery and develop the county’s ICT plan before pulling out. “Despite the World Bank abandoning it, we decided to complete it because we know (its) benefits,” added Kerich.
 And Sonko, during the launch, claimed that World Bank had poured Sh800 million into the project and that the county government spent another Sh300 million for its completion.
 Kidero also claimed to have mooted the Nairobi County Integrated Development Plan.
 Separately, Sonko has rubbished reports in a section of the media claiming that State House was running the county government's affairs. 
 ALSO READ:

New system to help reduce traffic in Nairobi

 He said the county and national governments were working together to improve the lives of Nairobians.
 Mr Sonko said: "The national government owes us over Sh80 billion and they've already started releasing this money to us in bits. We shall continue to partner with them.”
