An attempt by some teachers to eject embattled union Secretary General Wilson Sossion was thwarted when a majority of delegates at the union's annual meeting rallied to his defence.
 A 20-minute scuffle erupted at the Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) conference in Mombasa Thursday, when a section of delegates began to chant "Sossion must go" inside the hall. 
 ALSO READ:

Sossion ordered to vacate Knut office or lose seat

 They were referring to an ultimatum by the Labour ministry for Sossion to leave the union after he was nominated to the National Assembly.
 Outgoing Knut Chairman Mudzo Nzili, who has had frosty relations with Mr Sossion, attended Thursday's function.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 He was cheered when he bade the teachers farewell, saying he was grateful for their support and endorsed incoming chairman Wycliffe Omucheyi.
 But a defiant Sossion declared he would not resign from either seat amid cheers from delegates who said the secretary general was in Parliament to represent teachers' interests.
 He was supported by Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers Union ( Kuppet) Secretary General Akelo Misori who said the ministry's decree had no legal basis and was actuated by malice.
 "I'm remaining as secretary general of Knut and taking the position to represent teachers in Parliament," Sossionsaid.
 The debate came a day after the Government issued a directive to trade union leaders holding political positions to relinquish them.
 The directive, through a gazette notice, listed at least 11 leaders that include governors, MPs and MCAs. 
 ALSO READ:

Teachers Service Commission bans 41 tutors over cases

 Some of them have since resigned from their positions as leaders of various trade unions.
 Among those asked by the Labour ministry to vacate their union positions are Emuhaya MP Omboko Milemba, who is a Kuppet official.
 Also listed were Nyeri Governor and Knut branch secretary Mutahi Kahiga, Baringo Governor Stanley Kiptis of Knut and Union of Kenya Civil Servants Secretary General Tom Odege, who is Nyatike MP.
 Mr Kahiga and Mr Kiptis are among those who relinquished their positions.
 Sossion said he will move to court to have the gazette notice quashed, terming it unconstitutional.
 Contempt proceedings
 "It is not upon the Labour minister to issue gazette notice and bar politicians from holding union posts. We shall file contempt proceedings against (Labour Cabinet Secretary) Phyllis Kandie. If she thinks we are leaving we are not. We are here and there," said Sossion. 
 ALSO READ:

KUPPET warns CS Matiang’i, terms new policies as capitalistic 

 The anti-Sossion delegates were roughed up and thrown of the hall by the majority of delegates who chanted "Sossion must stay", accusing delegates opposed to him of serving external interests.
 lmwawasi@standardmedia.co.ke
