One of the best KCPE candidates in the county could fail to join secondary school due to lack of fees.
 Clain Baraza, 14, who scored 414 marks at Kakamega Primary School, cannot raise the Sh53,554 required to secure admission to Kapsabet High School. 
 ALSO READ:

Two street children who excelled in KCPE scavenge for plastics to raise fees

 His father, Rodgers Makokha, was involved in a road accident in 2014 that left him paralysed and jobless.
 “My husband was heading to work when he was involved in a road accident and was rendered jobless,” Clain’s mother, Mercyline Charo, told The Standard.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Besides the fees, Clain needs extra money to carter for personal effects including two blankets and bed sheets, yet his mother, a housewife cannot afford them.
 Mr Makokha was the family's breadwinner and all his savings were spent on medical expenses after the accident.
 Clain’s older sister is a student at Alliance Girls while his younger sibling is expected to sit for his KCPE next year.
 Ms Charo called on wellwishers to assist her raise her son's school fees.
 “It hurts me to know that my son’s dreams could be shattered because I’m not in a position to take him to school even after he posted sterling results,” she said.
 Hope Isoi, who scored 330 marks at Amalemba Primary School, is also appealing for help to raise school fees. 
 ALSO READ:

Is better public school performance a threat to private schools?

 “I am supposed to pay Sh40,535 but I cannot raise it. My father had a stroke in 2005. He quit work and we depend on friends. I am appealing to wellwishers to help me raise the fees,” Isoi said.
 In neighbouring Bungoma, Governor Wycliffe Wangamati said the county would pay school fees for candidates admitted to national schools for one year.
 At least 100 students secured slots in national schools, he said.
 He added that the county would be able to meet the cost of the average fee of Sh53,000 per student each year.
 The county has set aside about Sh10 million for the targeted students.
