NAIROBI, KENYA: Carrel, a Kenyan IT company has unveiled a platform that seeks to eliminate physical boardroom meetings in a move to help members save time.
 The digital platform enables one to plan, manage and report on the meeting deliberations without attending such gatherings in person.
 “PEPAless is a platform that allows you to plan and manage all your board activities online from one secure platform alleviating the need for paper, “says Mr. Eddie Malitt, the Chief Executive officer Carrel Technologies.
 “It is accessible anywhere and on any device while on the go. You can view board packs, either in advance, or in the course of a meeting, you can also add annotations on documents that are of interest to you and share meeting minutes in real-time,” he adds.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 It is estimated that paperless meetings will save corporates and organizations money in the long run. Investments are however required to buy the smartphones, tablet, and board meeting software such as the PEPAless.
 Other areas that require investments include money for training members on how to use the board portals.
 Amb. Dan Makdwallo, Carrel Board Chairman says the investment is worth it owing to the benefits the boardroom portals now bring.
 “I got a sense that this will be something exciting, which would change many people’s lives and line of work because arranging for board meetings would never be the same again,” he says.
 "You only need an email address and few company details to perform tasks like sending invitations to board members and setup agenda with very easy to use templates that are auto generated and also assemble all board papers in one platform and get comments from management,” he says.
 “This has proved to manage time making us organized.”
 Speaking at the companys' 5th anniversary commemoration in Nairobis' Raddison Blue Hotel, the Chairman, Amb. Makdwallo, said the firm will now focus on various innovations in its 2018-2020 strategic plan.
