Opposition leader Raila Odinga has sent out invitations to his swearing in scheduled to take place on Jamhuri Day.
 The invitation posted on NASA’s Telegram channel on Friday, states the swearing in will take place on December 12, 2017. 
 ALSO READ:

Judiciary speaks on Raila’s swearing in

 The venue of the inauguration, however, has not been disclosed.
 Guests will also be vetted before gracing the controversial ceremony.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

  
  
 The Judiciary stated on Friday that it had not received any formal communication from the National Super Alliance (NASA) about the inauguration.
 "The Judiciary has not been notified on the inauguration ceremony planned by the Opposition party," said Chief Registrar of the Judiciary Anne Amadi.
 Ms Amadi spoke at Pride Inn Hotel on Friday.
 Police dispersed a crowd at Raila’s rally along Manyanja Road, Eastlands, on Tuesday afternoon after the announcement of his inauguration. 
 ALSO READ:
 
NCIC says no to secession

 "I am not a coward, I will be sworn as president on Jamhuri Day, I am the legitimate president," said Raila.
 He also said that he did not recognise the August 8 and October 26, 2017 elections conducted by IEBC, insisting they were shambolic.
 The NASA leader and his entourage were on their way to Jacaranda grounds in Nairobi's Embakasi area for the planned memorial service for 27 supporters killed during election protests.
 NASA moved its agitation plans for electoral reform a notch higher on Friday by naming a team to run the People’s Assembly National Steering Committee.
 The six-member team led by fiery economist Dr David Ndii will guide and facilitate various programs that will be centre of NASA’s agenda amongst other duties, according to former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale.
 The taskforce will also look into the systemic governance weaknesses that have precipitated the unfolding political impasse, says the alliance.
 The team comprises; Judy Sijeny, Hamida Kibwana, Dr Mutakha Kangu, Oduor Ong’wen, Koitamet ole Kina and former East African Legislative Assembly  MP Peter Mathuki. 
 ALSO READ:

What Jubilee should prioritise to ensure peace and prosperity

 Making the announcement, Dr Khalwale condemned the brutality meted on supporters by police saying that it had stop immediately.
 Khalwale said that the Jubilee Government cannot be allowed to continue with its dictatorship saying NASA will continue fighting for democracy and rights of citizens.
 Khalwale was flanked by former Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama and other Opposition leaders at the Okoa Kenya offices, Nairobi.
 Opposition leader Raila Odinga said in October the People’s Assembly would be a broad-based forum consisting of elected leaders and the leadership of other sectors of society in particular workers, civil society, religious leaders, women, youth and economic interest groups.
