Elections are at the heart of democratic political systems where citizens choose their representatives. The Kenyan constitution recognises the sovereignty of the people and guarantees their right to exercise power directly and indirectly with elections being the instruments through which the people delegate their power to Parliament, legislative assemblies, county executives and the national executive led by the president.
 While elections have always been conceptualised as selection exercises where citizens choose their leaders, a presidential election has a greater meaning beyond the narrow exercise of selecting leaders. Essentially, a presidential election is a sovereign approval of a leader’s party manifesto allowing him to form government and formulate public policy that determines the nation’s development trajectory. 
 ALSO READ:

Co-operative bank group CEO to receive presidential award

 Upon winning in the 1828 US election, President Andrew Jackson brought in new federal employees in an unprecedented style of government reforms. This came to be known as the ‘spoils system’ and was popularised by the then Senator of New York, William Marcy, who defended the actions of President Jackson by stating that, ‘to the victor goes the spoils’. This became the classic standard of forming government by newly elected presidents who brought in their trusted and loyal lieutenants to serve in appointive positions.
 Paradigm shift




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 The practice was adopted across the world and in Kenya, Cabinet appointments offer the best example of the spoils system.
 The rationale behind this is that with the mandate to form government, a newly elected president comes to office with a unique vision that draws from his manifesto which can only be successfully translated into policy outputs and development gains if he has trusted persons of his own choosing to help him govern.
 President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto were elected first in 2013 on account of a strong manifesto anchored on the three pillars of Umoja, Uchumi and Uwazi, mainly targeting accelerated infrastructure development, land, education reforms, national cohesion, national security, trade and a strong foreign policy, affirmative action, sport development, youth and women empowerment, and social protection. And for four and a half years, they worked with their cabinet to implement this manifesto.
 Come 2017, President Kenyatta and Deputy President Ruto secured a new five year term. This re-election therefore meant a fresh mandate to select their preferred persons to the cabinet and continue with their transformation agenda.This is the final critical term for the president to secure his legacy which is well envisioned in the broad manifesto of the Jubilee Party.
 These include a united and prosperous Kenya, a fast growing economy, a Kenya for all, an accountable, professional and efficient government and making Kenya a regional powerhouse at peace with itself and her neighbours.
 This is a daunting task for the president that is achievable only if he is allowed the space to pick competent Kenyans who believe in his vision to help him deliver. 
 ALSO READ:

Githeri man, Robert Alai, Dennis Itumbi to receive HSC awards

 Attributes
 In every political system across the world, apart from merit, loyalty is a key consideration in making political appointments and Kenya is not an exception. This is of course guided by constitutional prescriptions on state appointments and also includes parliamentary approval to ensure inclusiveness, gender balance, affirmative action, professionalism and regional balance.
 With these elaborate safeguards in place, Cabinet selection in Kenya culminates in a win-win situation for both citizen and the president where the people get qualified persons to serve them while the president gets loyal men and women to help him deliver on his legacy.
 Whereas it is individually important for the president to build a legacy, we must all note the prosperity dividend of a good legacy shall equally benefit all Kenyans.
 A presidential legacy is therefore a joint national aspiration that must be defended by all Kenyans, but this is only possible if the President is accorded the space to exercise his executive prerogative to pick competent men and women to cabinet without being blackmailed by opportunistic persons or situations.
 Elections are a sacrosanct instrument for delegating sovereignty to the president granting him the legal and legitimate grounds to implement his manifesto and build a legacy that shall benefit all of Kenya. Elections are about choices, Kenyans chose President Kenyatta and Deputy President Ruto; it is time for all of us to rally behind them and support them to deliver the prosperity dividend of a good legacy. 
   
 ALSO READ:

Supreme Court judges: Uhuru did not scare us

 Mr Kipkulei is a Senior Associate Consultant on Policy, Governance and Strategy with Sovereign Insight Ltd. kipkuleic@gmail.com
