A section of Jubilee parliamentarians have opposed President Uhuru Kenyatta's  nominees to the Parliamentary Service Commission.
 The President had nominated Beth Mugo, Adan Keynan and Naomi Shaban to Parliamentary Service Commission, who were all opposed by Jubilee legislators. They have vowed to table a rejection motion in Parliament later. 
 ALSO READ:

DP Ruto: We will bring both friend and foe on board

 They said that both Beth Mugo and Adan Keynan would not take care of their interests claiming they had failed to do so during the last Parliament when they sat in the commission.
 As for Naomi Shabaan, they said that she did not deserve the nomination since she had served as the Deputy Majority Leader in the last Parliament.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 The MPs met today at State House to decide on viable candidates for the membership of the Parliamentary Service Commission as well as nominate chairpersons of various House committees.
 Among those nominated to chair House committees include: Rachael Nyamai (Lands), Sabina Chege (Health), William Cheptumo (Justice and Legal Affairs), Ali Wario (Labour), Kanini Kega (Energy), Katoo Ole Metito Defense, Paul Koinange (Security) Kimani Ichungwa (Transport ) Jeremiah Kioni (Cohesion) Joseph Limo (Finance) and  Kareke Mbiuki (Environment).
 The MPs have also complained over the nomination of the chairpersons saying they were mostly dominated by Central and Rift Valley regions.
 They also grumbled about the naming of committee chairs by the President calling it a departutre from the tradition of such committees choosing their chairs.
 The Parliamentary Service Commission (PSC) chaired by National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi was bound to be a battleground for new commissioners or lawmakers.
 Parliament sits today (Wednesday) to discuss the names and its not clear whether the dissenting Jubilee MPs will change their minds. 
 ALSO READ:

Low turnout recorded at Kasarani as President Uhuru leads Jamhuri Day

 Tomorrow the house meets to vote for East African Legislative Assembly MPs.
 There are, however, murmurs among lawmakers on the choice of committees to which they have been selected to sit in despite submitting their two preferences as directed by their parties.
 Of the 32 committees in the National Assembly and 16 in the Senate, Transport, Public Accounts Committee (PAC), Public Investment Committee (PIC), Defense and Foreign Relations and Energy have attracted the greatest interest
 Gunning for the PSC positions are:  MPs Ben Momanyi (Borabu-Wiper), Simba Arati (Dagoretti North), Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), Elijah Memusi (Kajiado Central-ODM), Senator George Khaniri (Vihiga), Katoo Ole Metito (Kajiado South) John Waluke (Sirisia) and Naomi Shabani (Taveta).
 However, things appeared not rosy for the former commissioners Senator Beth Mugo, Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay County MP) and Adan Keynan (Eldas) who are seeking to retain their seats as legislators blame them for not pushing for the review of their perks.
 Factors such as self-interest, incompetence and the scrapped allowance by Salaries and Remuneration Commission may work against the former commissioners.
   
 ALSO READ:

NASA governors skip Jamhuri Day celebrations

