PMVA celebrates and rewards local talent with an aim of ensuring Kenya’s music industry is vibrant Starehe MP joins artistes to celebrate success of the music industry The third edition of Pulse Music Video Awards (PMVA) saw 10 winners crowned.
 The event hosted by KTN presenter Chero Oywa and Michael Makori, started at 7pm at the Carnivore Grounds, Nairobi on Thursday night.
 This year’s PMVA Male and Female Artiste of the Year award went to Willy Paul and Kush Tracey respectively.
 Willy Paul was contesting for this slot alongside Naiboi, King Kaka and Kristoff while Kush Tracey whose win came as a surprise to many, was battling it out with Fena, Sanaipei Tande, Dela and Mercy Masika.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “I want to use this opportunity to thank God who has fought for me all this time. I passed through so many hurdles and criticism when many failed to understand me,” Willy Paul said. 
 Set the trend
 Other winners were Timeless Noel who bagged Breakthrough Artist of the Year award. Gospel musician Papa Dennis won Best Choreography award. Evelyn Wanjiru was named Video Vixen of the Year for the second time while Video Director of the Year award went to Moses Osidiana for the track Nataka Hio Doh by Khaligraph Jones.
 Standard Group acting CEO Orlando Lyomu described the event as the biggest and most comprehensive music show that celebrates and rewards local talent besides sustaining our future and the local music industry.
 “We want to set the trend and enable upcoming and aspiring musicians feel like they want to be part of it in years to come. With this kind of event, we could easily provide for 90 per cent local content and not be boring,” he said. Standard Group Head of Marketing Doreen Mbaya said the awards build and appreciate local talent. She also applauded the Standard Group and other sponsors for a job well done.
 Previous winners of PMVAs Amos and Josh and judges of PMVA 2017 described it as a great source of originality, content and creativity.
 Grammy Award winners and nominee, Morgan Heritage, who sent a message from the US to the event organisers and nominees, said PMVA was a big step towards appreciating and elevating local talent.
 Local musicians such as Starehe MP Charles Njagua popularly known as Jaguar, Kevin Wyre, Refigah and Kenzo attended the event. Upcoming artistes and local deejays like Kaytrixx, Wesley and Moh were also in attendance.
 Also present were celebrities such as KTN’s Jamal Gaddaffi, Dj Moh, Papa Dennis, Kymo and Stigah, comedians Eric Omondi, Njugush, Chipukeezy, Amos and Josh, KTN news anchor Betty Kyalo, Bahati, Homeboyz Mike Rabar, Chris Kirwa, Le band, Fena Gitu, Timeless Noel, The Beca Band, Bruce Newton, Mr Seed, video producers J blessing, Moses Osidiana, radio presenter Mwalimu Racheal, Sharon Okoth and Joy Mwendo,
 Performances were by UNIKK dancers, Amos and Josh (famed for the songs Urembo ni Wewe, Tutaonana Baadaye, Nereah and Kupe), Fena Gitu, Willy Paul and Kevin Wyre.
 The event ended at 11.30 pm and guests proceeded to Kiza Lounge for the after party.
 PMVA was sponsored by Standard Group, Posh Palace, Carnivore and Homeboyz.
