Former Kibwezi MP Richard Kalembe Ndile has warned to withdraw his TIP TIP party from supporting Jubilee citing being sidelined in decision making.
 The ex-legislator who claims to have fully supported President Kenyatta’s re-election said he had applied to be considered for a slot in East African Legislative Assembly (EALA) but his name was scrapped off the list by the national Assembly majority leader Aden Duale and senate majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen. 
 ALSO READ:

Drama as fans throng Airport to see off Raila to Nairobi

 “I obeyed the call by the National Assembly clerk Micahel Sialai and senate clerk Jeremiah Nyegenye, the presiding officers for the applications and presented my documents for considerations but Mr. Duale and Mr. Murkomen removed my name from the list in bad faith”, said Mr. Kalembe
 The outspoken former legislator said the deputy president Mr. William Ruto’s 2022 politics remain a myth with surrounding of leaders who indulge in boardroom for key party decision making.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Kalembe adds that during the merging of the parties to form Jubilee party they had agreed to be having consultative meetings to meet into a consensus in such matters.
 “These two consulted none in their decisions, even the TIP TIP party members weren’t consulted”, he said
 He cautioned that if such deeds will continue they will detach themselves off the Jubilee party.
 “As a party we will take necessary measures, we aren’t treated as equals, other parties making Jubilee have been given positions where Ken Lusaka, Eugene Wamalwa from New Ford Kenya have landed on positions”, Kalambe wondered on positions of his TIP TIP.
 Equally, he congratulated the Wiper Party leader and NASA co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka for not being part of Raila Odinga in his self-purported swearing in move.
 “It was wise for Wiper for not supporting Raila’s ill-intended move to be sworn-in on December 12, such deeds may land him in martial court,” he disclosed. 
 ALSO READ:

NASA strategist Ndii finally released 

