The probity of this year’s Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) results has been broadly called into question. Even as Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi basks in the glory of pulling another surprise by releasing results in record time, parents and other stakeholders have been confounded by the dismal showing.
 More than half of the 615,773 candidates who wrote the exam failed and thus will not secure places in the university. Only 70,073 candidates attained university cut-off grade of C+. Some 350,000 candidates got grade D and below, dimming their chances of getting meaningful opportunities in the labour market. Opposition chief Raila Odinga, teachers’ unions and the Parliamentary Committee on Education have demanded an explanation. 
 ALSO READ:

Head teachers anxious as TSC begins transfers

 They have attributed the mass failure to the processes and procedures adopted by the Kenya National Examinations Council. Knut boss Wilson Sossion claimed the results, released on Thursday, may have been hurriedly announced even before the requisite moderation. Some stakeholders accuse Dr Matiang’i of hurrying the process to gain political capital.
 Whichever the problem, these concerns have to be addressed now if the ministry is to safeguard the credibility of national examinations. Matiang’i and his team should get it right to preserve the sanctity of grades and certificates.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


 We urge the CS to address every issue raised with all the clarity, and he must rope in stakeholders. A probe should be conducted if found necessary and the findings made public. The other concern is what will become of candidates who failed. The government must pronounce itself on what it plans to do with this lot to avoid dreadful ramifications. When the taxpayer funds free learning and parents sacrifice to keep their children in school, education becomes a mockery when the learners fail in large numbers. This is why Matiang’i and those entrusted with running schools owe us an explanation.
