The Tana River governor has banned official conferences and training sessions organised outside the county.
 Mr Godhana Dhadho has also stopped all leisure travel and procurement of goods and services from Malindi and Mombasa counties without his consent.
 Speaking to staff and area leaders at his office in Hola during a Christmas party, Dhadho appealed to the community to construct good hotels in the county to curb frequent travel in search of good facilities.
 Swimming pools




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 He said from next year, he would make sure nobody travels to neighbouring counties for accommodation as plans were underway to construct county-owned guest hotels with swimming pools and other facilities to attract visitors and raise revenue.
 He also ordered Kenya Wild Service officials to protect residents from crocodiles along River Tana.
 "Let's spend the money wasted on roads to Malindi and back in Tana River County," said Dhadho.
 Last Wednesday, during a consultative meeting with businessmen in Hola town, Dhadho said 30 per cent of business is lost to other counties and that revenue collection was falling.
 On corruption, the governor warned that those caught stealing from the public coffers would face the law.
 He also promised to seal corruption avenues by installing a cashless system in every sub-county.
 The county has a debt of close to Sh20 billion in unpaid bills.
 Among the debtors are contractors and suppliers who are still owed money since 2013.
 According to an audit report released last month, the whereabouts of billions of shillings from the past administration is unknown, leaving the county government unable to purchase anything from suppliers due to lack of trust.
 Earlier, Tana River Chamber of Commerce and Industry official Hassan Wario said the county had enough resources to fight poverty and develop the area.
 Buying maize
 Mr Wario asked the governor to help stop unscrupulous businessmen from buying maize from farmers, who he claimed said had impoverished them.
 He said farmers were being exploited by brokers who buy their produce at low prices and reap high returns. 
