South Korea yesterday predicted North Korea would look to open negotiations with the United States next year in an optimistic outlook for 2018.
 This is even as Seoul set up a specialised military team to confront nuclear threats from the North. 
 ALSO READ:

Warning shots as soldier crosses border to S. Korea

 The UN Security Council unanimously imposed new, tougher sanctions on reclusive North Korea on Friday for its recent intercontinental ballistic missile test, a move the North branded an economic blockade and act of war.
 “North Korea will seek negotiation with United States, while continuing to pursue its effort to be recognised as a de facto nuclear-possessing country,” South Korea’s Unification ministry said in a report, without offering any reasons for its conclusion.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 The Ministry of Defence said it would assign four units to operate under a new official overseeing North Korea policy, aimed to “deter and respond to North Korea’s nuclear and missile threat”.
 Tensions have risen over North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs, which it pursues in defiance of years of UN Security Council resolutions, with bellicose rhetoric coming from both Pyongyang and the White House.
 US diplomats have made clear they are seeking a diplomatic solution but President Donald Trump has derided talks as useless and said Pyongyang must commit to giving up its nuclear weapons before any talks can begin.
 In a statement carried by the official KCNA news agency, North Korea said the United States was terrified by its nuclear force and was getting “more and more frenzied in the moves to impose the harshest-ever sanctions and pressure on our country”.
 China, the North’s lone major ally, and Russia both supported the latest UN sanctions, which seek to limit the North’s access to refined petroleum products and crude oil and its earnings from workers abroad, while on Monday Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying called for all countries to ease tension.
 Yesterday, Beijing released customs data indicating China exported no oil products to North Korea in November, apparently going over and beyond UN sanctions. 
 ALSO READ:

U.S. now ready to talk to North Korea

 China, the main source of North Korea’s fuel, did not export any gasoline, jet fuel, diesel or fuel oil to its neighbor last month, data from the General Administration of Customs showed.
 In its 2018 forecast, South Korea’s Unification Ministry said it believed the North would eventually find ways to blunt the effects of the sanctions.
