We're humbled and very grateful for the milestone this year. As a business woman I'd first like to appreciate the pioneers who laid the foundation of business for us, especially Mrs Evelyn Mungai-Eldon who ignited the spirit of entrepreneurship for women in Kenya; as well as our trailblazers such as Dr. Jennifer Riria, Gina Din-Kariuki, Tabitha Karanja, Flora Mutahi, Njeri Rionge, to mention but a few, who inspire us to think beyond Kenyan borders.
 I have a lot of admiration and high regard for these formidable business women. 
 ALSO READ:

Hoteliers upbeat over festivities

 The LTG Global Award for Restaurant of the year came as a surprise to us, even though we had Initially won the Africa and the Middle East Restaurant of the Year award early this year it was shocking and thrilling at the same time to say the least.
 This award is not just for me it is for the entire team at the Lord Erroll who work tirelessly to exceed guests expectations, our loyal guests have greatly supported us and are always encouraging us to raise the bar higher.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Without this kind of support, the award would not have been possible. 
 Being awarded the esteemed chairman’s award by the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and industry and especially Women in Business is a humbling experience.
 This recognition has motivated us to work harder. To our stakeholders, starting with our patrons, who are the reason for our existence, our key partners as well as the subject-matter experts who have and continue to walk with us in this journey, we couldn't have come this far without your support.
 My heartfelt gratitude goes to our young and energetic team on the ground for their commitment to providing exceptional dining experience and making The Lord Erroll a great escape from everyday life for our guests.
 The Lord Erroll is work-in-progress as we believe in the culture of continuous improvement.
 With humility and gratitude, we thank God for everything and wish everyone God's blessings.
