Two people have died in separate incidents in Trans Nzoia County in suspected love triangles.
 Over the weekend, a 25-year-old man hacked his wife to death in Mitume estate, Kitale, before he surrendered to the police.
 Anthony Karanja reportedly picked a quarrel with his wife Esther Wangui, 23, on Sunday night over an alleged love message in his phone.
 The suspect told police that his wife was infuriated by the message and an argument ensued.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 In the heat of the moment, the suspect picked a knife and stabbed her on the legs, chest and thighs.
 The man then allegedly hacked the woman using an axe before he walked to Matisi Police station.
 “Nimemmaliza endeni mumchukue," (I have killed her go and collect the body), the man shouted as he stormed the police station.
 Neighbours said the couple had arrived home moments before the incident at 7.30pm. The suspect was alleged to have unsuccessfully tried to commit suicide by taking poison. A second attempt also failed after he reportedly slipped from a rope he had tried to hang himself with and landed on the floor.
 After the suicide plot failed he locked the room with a padlock and walked to the police station where he surrendered.
 “The suspect led our officers to the house where he handed a key to the house enabling the officers remove the body,” said Kitale police boss Jackson Mwenga.
 Officers recovered a knife and an axe which had blood stains.
 Mr Mwenga said the man was in custody and an investigation had begun.
 The incident comes barely four days after a man allegedly committed suicide in Kapsara village after his girlfriend reportedly received a night phone call from another man. 
 Sammy Kiilu, 25, committed suicide after an argument with the woman during the Thursday night incident.
 According to area assistant chief Evans Wandabi, Mr Kiilu, a causal worker at a posho mill set himself ablaze after his girlfriend, Salina Akoth defied his orders not to answer the call.
 Kiilu and Ms Akoth, a waiter at a local bar, arrived at a room they have rented and differed when the woman answered the call.
 "They argued when the women received a call from another man. Annoyed by the woman's action, he picked petrol in a jerrican and poured it on himself. He then set himself on fire," said the area assistant chief Evans Wandabi.
 While engulfed by the flames, Kiilu took to the heels and jumped into a nearby fish pond as he tried to put off the fire.
 "The villagers responded to his screams and rescued him before rushing him to Kapsara sub-county hospital. He was transferred to Kitale level four hospital where he succumbed to the burns,"  said the chief.
 County Commander Samson ole Kine confirmed the incident, saying the woman escaped unhurt.
 Mr Kine said an investigation was ongoing and he advised young couples to seek help whenever there is a family dispute.
