A politician collapsed and died during Jamhuri Day celebrations in Nyeri County.
 Nyeri Member of the County Assembly (MCA) Peter Weru died on Tuesday at the Outspan Hospital where he was receiving treatment. 
 ALSO READ:

County to ferry thousands to Uhuru’s inauguration

 A medic in charge of the hospital indicated the MCA died of a heart attack.
 According to Nyeri County Assembly Speaker John Kaguchia, Mr Weru of Ruguru Ward collapsed while addressing a crowd at Ndunduini Primary School in Mathira Constituency.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Recounting Weru’s last moments, Mr Kaguchia said the MCA complained of weakness and requested to be taken to hospital.
 "It is very unfortunate that Nyeri county we also mourning another leader. Weru was addressing a gathering but felt some weakness and requested he be taken to the doctor but unfortunately he succumbed," he said.
 He added the politician attended a county meeting on Monday and had no signs of illness.
 "He was very Jovial and active and we have not been told of any serious health condition that he suffered," Kaguchia stated.
 
   
 ALSO READ:

Yes, Nyeri will arise and shine even in the face of challenges

 Weru’s death comes a month after the second Nyeri governor Wahome Gakuru died on Tue, November 7th in a horrific road accident at Kabati, along Thika-Murang'a road while heading to Nairobi for a talk show.
 Dr Gakuru was laid to rest at his Kirichu home in Nyeri on Saturday November 18, 2017.
 Gakuru, former Vision 2030 director garnered 280,037 votes against Samuel Wamathai’s 85,316 in the August 8 General Election to take the seat he missed in 2013.
 The governor’s technocrat background had put him in good stead to deal with a range of issues in his in-tray, having taken over a government that for the better part of the past five years was almost dysfunctional owing to incessant wrangles between the executive and members of the county assembly (MCAs).
 Nyeri residents looked up to Gakuru, after a harsh critic of the outgoing administration, for solutions, especially in spurring development and changing the fortunes of the ailing coffee and tea sectors in the county.
 Dr Gakuru was also a distinguished academician. Between 2001 and 2004 he obtained a Ph.D. in Public Administration from Arizona State University after graduating from Willamette University – Atkinson Graduate School of Management with a Master of Business Administration degree.
 
 ALSO READ:

Gakuru’s attention to detail endeared him to many

