Eight people have died in two separate accidents along the Nairobi- Mombasa highway, in which both involved head-on collision with Nairobi bound trucks.
 In the first accident, seven people travelling in a Toyota Hearse funeral van died on the spot. The other was rushed to Sultan-Hamud sub-county hospital in life-threatening condition after a collision with a trailer headed to Nairobi.   
 ALSO READ:

Philippine storm death toll rises to 133

 According to Makueni County Police Commander, Mr. Joseph Ole Naipaiyan, the accident happened some minutes past 9a.m at Kalimbini area near Sultan Hamud town along Makueni- Mombasa-Nairobi stretch.
 “The morning hours accident involved a van ferrying mourners to a funeral function”, Mr. Naipaiyan’s statement read.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 The area police boss Mr. Zack Bitok reported that by the time they arrived at the scene, the truck driver had already fled.
 An eye witness, Mr. Faston Kaloki told the Standard that the lorry was overtaking and accidentally met the van that was over speeding.
 “The driver of the lorry was overtaking and due to miscalculations he could not make it passed the vehicles ahead of him, so he tried getting back to his lane where he met the van headed in the opposite direction that had swerved to avoid collision with the lorry and the accident occurred”, said Mr. Kaloki.
 Another eye witness Mr. Ngao Kioko said the truck driver was responsible for the confusion that led to the accident.
 Police did not reveal the destination of the hearse van.
 In the second accident, one person in A Toyota Hilux double cabin died instantly after his vehicle collided with a truck at Sekeleni area near Makindu town along Mombasa-Nairobi highway with others nursing injuries at Makindu sub-county hospital. 
 ALSO READ:

Matiang’i should make sports mandatory in all learning institutions says KUSA chairman Mbaabu Mureithi

 The bodies of those in the hearse van were taken to Sultan-Hamud sub-county hospital mortuary, and the other from the Hilux car retrieved to makindu sub-county hospital mortuary waiting for identification.
 Following the two accidents at less than an hour interval, the Makueni County commissioner Mr. Maalim Mohammed cautioned drivers against careless driving during this Christmas period adding that they had intensified on traffic patrols along the busy highway.
  “I caution the truck drivers who have been causing accidents along this road, they need to be careful and mindful of other peoples’ lives and we are intensifying our patrols to get hold of such reckless drivers”, he said.
