NAIROBI, KENYA: Thousands of Likoni channel users will soon have an alternative means of crossing to the current ferries.
 This was after Kenya Ferry Services (KFS) and Trapos Limited signed the initial agreement to develop a cable car project at a cost of Sh5.8 billion. 
 ALSO READ:

Classy KDF boxers closer to title: With the might of numbers, the crown is on sight

 The agreement signed between KFS managing director Mr Bakari Gowa and Trapos Limited chairman Dr Eustace Mwarania awaits Cabinet approval before construction of the cable car infrastructure starts in the second quarter of next year.
 Signing of the partnership agreement occurred at the KFS headquarters on Mombasa mainland south. It was witnessed by KFS chairman Ramadhan Kajembe and senior management.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “This project will offer an alternative means of crossing the Likoni channel. It will ease congestion, promote tourism and help in attaining the objectives of the government’s vision 2030,” Gowa explained.
 In January 2020, Mombasa residents and tourists will cross the channel as they enjoy a panoramic view of the Kilindini channel at about 100 metres above the sea.
 The masts holding the cables will be built adjust to the ramps where ferries land with the main office for the project located on the south mainland side of the channel and a substation on the island side.
 There will be 22 cabins running on the cables each carrying across 38 passengers. The proposed infrastructure will have a crossing time of less than three minutes with capacity of 5,500 passengers per hour per direction or a total of 11,000 passengers per hour.
 Initially passengers will be charged between Sh20 and Sh100 depending on mode and time of travel across the channel, Gowa explained.
 Likoni Cable Express Project will develop the infrastructure between next years and 2019 while Likoni Cable Express Limited will operate the project under a 25-year concession. 
 ALSO READ:

Hassan Omar ‘relative’ arrested over terror links

