Most Kenyans online hit the ‘search’ key for former president, businessman Jimmi Wanjigi, and MP Paul Ongili alias Babu Owino. Former President Mwai Kibaki and businessman Jimmi Wanjigi were among the most searched names this year, Google has said.
 Also among the top searches were the phrase 'Tibim', 'how to get pregnant', and 'what is Bitcoin'. 
 ALSO READ:

Why apex court upheld President Kenyatta’s October 26 poll victory

 Embakasi East MP Paul Ongili alias Babu Owino, who popularised the political slogan ‘Tibim’, was the second most searched personality.
 Ezra Chiloba, Janet Kanini, Nicholas Biwott, Robert Mugabe, Joseph Nkaissery, Nderitu Gachagua, and Chris Msando were also among the top personalities searched this year.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Kenyans were also keen on the prolonged electioneering period with ‘IEBC Results’ (Independence and Electoral Boundaries Commission Results) topping the list of top trending searches.
 Queries related to the elections took up six positions on the list of 10 top trending general searches with queries such as NASA Coalition, NASA flagbearer, Jubilee Party, and presidential results
 Political intrigues in Gambia also captured the attention of Kenyans online, emerging the second most trending search in the country.
 Guillain Barre (GB) syndrome, a disease in which the body’s immune system attacks the nerves, topped trending health searches.
 How to
 'How to lose weight', 'How to lose belly fat', and 'How to get pregnant' were also some of the top health searches. 
 ALSO READ:

Supreme Court holds Raila did not properly withdraw

 Cholera, which has claimed 76 lives since January this year, appeared at number five in the trending health searches.
 In queries on the 'what is' category, 'what is Sarahah' topped the search list.
 Sarahah is an app that allows social media users to send messages anonymously and has been blamed for cyber bullying.
 'What is bitcoin' was also a top search query. Bitcoin is a form of unregulated digital currency that has this year piqued the interest of Kenyans.
 In the 'how to' category, Kenyans flocked online to search 'how to search KCPE results online”' – which topped the category.
 Kenyan’s rushing to beat the taxman’s deadline made 'how to file KRA returns' the second most searched query in the 'how to' category.
 County searches 
 ALSO READ:

Putin to seek 4th term as Russia's president

 Based on county searches, IEBC topped in Kisumu, Mombasa, and Eldoret.
 Football ranked high in the county searches, with Chelsea topping in Mombasa and Eldoret while Arsenal was top in Kisumu.
 Chelsea striker Alvaro Morata and former Harambee Stars Captain Dennis Oliech were among the most trending sports personalities.
 Globally, US Hurricane Irma topped searches. Matt Lauer, who was sacked from US TV station, NBC, on allegations of sexual harassment, was the most searched global personality.
