Police are holding a man in connection with the death of his mother after an altercation over a radio.
 The 79-year-old woman was reportedly attacked on Monday morning after she switched off a radio as the man listened to his favourite rhumba music. 
 ALSO READ:

Woman set free after pleading guilty to manslaughter in husband's death

 He is alleged to have cut her several times on the ahead and left her lying in a pool of blood. The suspect claimed his mother had no authority to deny him the right to enjoy music.
 "He came home and found the radio playing rhumba music at high volume and started dancing in front of the children. Mum called him outside and they quarrelled for some time before he pounced on her with a panga,” said one of his sisters.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Western Regional Police Commander Moses Ombati said the suspect is being held at Malaika police station.
 “We are investigating the cases and once we compile all the evidence, the suspect will be taken to court for prosecution,” he said.
 “Harming your mother for telling you to stop doing something wrong is unforgivable. Children need to respect their parents,” Ombati added.
 Elsewhere, the body of a woman was found in a quarry at Mithuri estate in Naivasha, Nakuru County, yesterday.
 There were conflicting reports on the cause of death, with police saying the woman slipped and fell into the quarry.
 However, area residents claimed the woman could have been murdered elsewhere and the body dumped in the quarry. 
 ALSO READ:

Woman: I was locked up in same cell as men

 The Naivasha sub-county commissioner, Isaac Masinde, said initial investigations had ruled out any foul play.
 He was, however, quick to add that police had opened an inquest file as part of their investigations, adding that the body had been taken to the area mortuary.
 Samson Kiratu, a resident, said the woman was not known in the area.
 “There are many unanswered questions in this incident but we hope that police will reveal the main cause of the death,” he said.
