Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i is a man under siege. The release of the 2017 Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education examination results in a record three weeks appears to have rubbed a lot of people the wrong way. Not only did the results reflect a big drop in overall performance, the teachers who marked the examination papers have claimed that the marking schemes had errors.
 The markers also complained that they had to work long hours without rest, which affected their concentration and might have led to lapses that could have cost some students marks. 
 ALSO READ:

Court halts relocation of Kachok dumpsite

 The chorus of condemnation and demands for an audit of the KCSE results have been unrelenting. At some point a legislator from western Kenya vowed that MPs would not approve Matiangi’s nomination if he is named in the new Cabinet. Taking the cue, other MPs have threatened a vote of no confidence in the CS.
 The Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut), equally aggrieved by the transfer of several head teachers, has threatened to call a national strike. At the root of Knut's complaints is the fact that Matiang'i has not consulted them on virtually every reform he has undertaken in the ministry. This includes curriculum change, transfer of teachers, and a new textbook acquisition system. While some of these complaints reflect genuine concerns, Knut's threat of a national strike because a handful of teachers have been transferred are irresponsible. Transfers in the work environment are normal. In any case, change of work station is good for bringing in new ideas. Civil servants commit to work anywhere in the republic. Teachers are not more special than other civil servants. Politicians insinuating themselves into the issue of teacher transfers are insincere and, no doubt, pursuing selfish goals.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Many schools that used to top the charts a few years back are pale shadows of their former selves, the reason being that leaders took their tribal politics and simplistic solutions for complex problems to the institutions, demanding that head teachers be chosen from the communities around. The attendant mediocrity is responsible for the fall in standards in schools once considered academic giants.
 The streamlining of education calls for a joint effort and constant consultation among stakeholders. The country can no longer afford the cost of strikes.
