Campaign comes days after Uhuru was sworn in as president for second term Bemet governor urges Kenyans to put politics aside and focus on nation-building. The team set up by governors to promote peace and national healing after the divisive political campaigns has started work, Bomet Governor Joyce Laboso has said.
 Ms Laboso, who spoke in Khwisero during the burial of the mother-in-law of former Nairobi woman representative Rachael Shebesh, Doris Elizabeth Ongoche, on Monday said the committee would spearhead reconciliation, dialogue, and healing. 
 ALSO READ:

Ugandan rebels kill 15 Tanzanian UN peacekeepers in Congo

 "The committee is not political and members have their work cut out for them. It will not be a walk in the park but we are determined to make it happen," she said.
 "Politicians have never been permanent enemies. I was a member of ODM at some point but here I am in Jubilee. Therefore, politics should never divide our country,” Laboso said.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 She added: "Kenyans must be willing to put aside their political differences following a heated political contest between Jubilee and NASA and continue living together in harmony. Kenyans must resist the temptation to hate one another due to politics."
 "Campaigns and elections are behind us now. We need to start looking at the issue of nationhood more seriously.”
 Issue of nationhood
 Members of the team unveiled last week include the convener, Council of Governors (CoG) Chairman Josphat Nanok, who is also the Turkana governor.
 Others include governors Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni), Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega), Cornell Rasanga (Siaya), Jackson Mandago (Uasin Gishu), Charity Ngilu (Kitui), and Francis Kimemia (Nyandarua).
 Laboso, Meru's Kiraitu Murungi, and Salim Mvurya of Kwale are also in the team. 
 ALSO READ:

Uhuru has won the election, he must set out to win the nation

 Opposition leaders
 NASA recently called off its plans to swear in Raila Odinga as president.
 Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong accused the national government of trying to deny opposition leaders and their supporters the right to assemble.
