 
 Kenyans are bracing themselves for a black Christmas in a year characterised by an economic slow-down that resulted in job losses and relocation of manufacturing companies to other countries.
 
 ALSO READ:

Why I won’t give in to Jubilee and NASA demands

 Slimming of profits from key institutions are forcing many to scale back and operate on a shoe-string budget.
 Dozens of companies have scaled back on their operations. Redundancies have been the key operating word for many organisations and the Kenya shilling has taken a pounding, affecting the value of imports.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Flagship stores have shut down, going down with billions of shillings owed to suppliers and rendering hundreds more jobless. But as budgets get leaner and every coin having to be stretched to the limit, a select group of Kenyans, entrusted with looking out for the best interest of the nation, have cost the economy billions of shillings over the past five years in salaries alone.
 Top on the list is the President’s wage bill that amounts to more than Sh100 million over five years.  In spite of austerity measures announced by President Uhuru Kenyatta in the middle of his first term, his government continues to put the heaviest load on the shoulders of tax payers.
 Since the inauguration of the Jubilee government, more than Sh23.5 billion has been paid out to the President, his deputy, the Cabinet Secretaries, the Speaker and their deputies, Governors as well as Members of Parliament.
 Apart from the salaries, these top government technocrats and people’s representatives also earn allowances that sometimes surpass their basic salaries.
 Although they have amassed a small fortune over the five years they served in various capacities, the perks get better for some of them.
 As we usher in the new year, MPs who have served for two consecutive terms are entitled to a send-off package of Sh2.8 billion, translating to Sh6.7 million for each of the 416 members of both Houses. 
 ALSO READ:

Let governors address needs of the people

 For completing their term in office, each of the 25 governors who served only one term are also looking forward to a proper payday of Sh12.28 million. Their deputies will cart away Sh8.6 million each from the exchequer for service to their people.
 Assuming that all the sitting governors will be entitled to gratuity, they will take home Sh577 million while their deputies will bag Sh404 million for the first term in office.
 In 2013 after serving his final term, former President Kibaki was awarded a lump sum pay cheque of Sh16.8 million, Sh560,000 monthly pension, and a set of allowances totalling Sh13 million annually.
 Based on similar mathematics, President Kenyatta will in his first term pocket Sh21 million while his deputy will take home Sh16.8 million
 In spite of Kenya being a third world country, it has consistently ranked among the top countries in terms of remunerating its politicians.
 Reviewed salaries
 It is not clear if the 2,222 Members of the County Assemblies (MCAs) will also be factored into the gratuity pay. A year ago, the MCAs went to court and demanded that they be paid until April 2018 when their five-year term ends because they were sworn-in in April 2013. 
 ALSO READ:

It’s time for UhuRuto to slay the dragons of graft, tribalism

 The figures will, however, scale down after Salaries and Remuneration Commission reviewed salaries of various State officers, including the president.
 Under the new structure released by the Sarah Serem-led commission in 2016, President Kenyatta and his Deputy will earn monthly gross pay of Sh1.4 million and Sh1.2 million. Cabinet Secretaries will now earn fixed salaries of Sh924,000 down from Sh1.056 million.
 Speakers of both Houses will take home Sh1.155 million while their deputies will get Sh924.000. Leaders of Majority and Minority will take home Sh765.188. Member of Parliament’s gross pay will be Sh621,250.
 Governors will earn Sh924.000 and their deputies Sh621,250.
