The Kenya National Union of Teachers (KNUT) has rejected the just released 2017 KCSE examination results.
 KNUT Secretary General Wilson Sossion on Thursday wrote to the Kenya National Examination Council (KNEC) demanding a recall of the results for moderating and auditing. 
 ALSO READ:

KCSE candidate commits suicide over ‘poor performance’

 “The results are not credible at all, they are irregular and most disastrous exam in the Kenya history, and does not meet the international standards of measurement and evaluation,” read the letter in part.
 The KNUT Secretary General further stated that the results will destroy the future of many children and hope of many families, insisting that they are bound to destroy public universities.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “It is shameful as a nation that we are unable to provide 95,000 as per existing vacancies in our universities, we can only supply 70,000. What happens with the remaining 25,000 available spaces, are all over 600,000 candidates total zombies?” said Mr Sossion.
 National Super Alliance (NASA) leader Raila Odinga also called for investigation into what he termed as ‘worrying trend of mass failure’ in KCSE examinations. Over 500,000 candidates scored below the University cutoff grade of C+
 "As a society, we must listen to the cries of the candidates, the parents and teachers' unions on this matter and have a serious conversation about this worrying trend," said Raila in a statement.
 The NASA leader however applauded Kenya National Examination Council (KNEC) for speedy release of results and efforts to try and curb exam cheating that has been witnessed for the past years. He also congratulated candidates and teachers whose performance was exemplary.
 The Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i on Wednesday, while releasing the results, commended the notable improvement in the 2017 KCSE performance. 
 “Matiang’i cannot hurry the release of results without proper processing and celebrate the mass failure of students. More importantly, fresh processing of raw marks must be conducted so as to deliver credible results,” said the KNUT Secretary General. 
 ALSO READ:

Pangani's secret lies in internal testing

 On Thursday, a 2017 KCSE candidate, Carren Ouman committed suicide in Migori County by jumping into a well after her parents allegedly quarreled her for poor performance.
 Ouma sat for the examinations at Moi Nyabohanse High school in Kuria Sub County and attained grade C- (minus).
