The Association of Practitioners in Advertising (APA) said several problems were dragging down the sector, but noted that these problems can be managed by enacting appropriate legislation.
 APA chair Lenny Ng’ang’a was however, cognizant of the unusual events that contributed to denting revenues for advertisers this year. These include the protracted electioneering period and the fall of retail giants Nakumatt. 
 ALSO READ:

Why Kenya is hosting China-Africa Industry Capacity Cooperation Expo

 "We have (also) suffered a major blow because of this,” said Ng'ang'a.
 Speaking at the 2017 APA Awards, Mr Ng'ang'a said the association has been holding talks with the Ministry of Information Communication Technology and Communication Authority about how some laws can be formulated.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 "If we do not become a voice to be heard when laws are being made in Parliament, then we will be affected and hit very hard,” said Ng'ang'a.
 The awards, which recognised 58 winners, were attended by Standard Group Acting Chief Executive Officer Orlando Lyomu among other sector players. There were at least 400 entries. Apart from The Standard Group, other major sponsors were Coca-cola and Magnate Ventures. O&M Africa and Creative Y & R bagged Grand Prix awards as agencies of the year. Digital interactive, television, video and cinema, print communication, and outdoor were some of the categories where top performers were recognised.
 Standard Group head Mr Lyomu said that with the radical shifts in the industry, it has become essential for players to innovate in order to stay afloat and give value to advertisers.
 "We recognise that we need to chase after people wherever they go. Such awards should not just recognise effort, but improve quality and set the bar so high,” said Lyomu.
 He noted that the disruption caused by new media and changing consumption patterns made it essential to rebrand to appeal to the younger generation. Lyomu said it was important speak to this group, who are the major targets of advertisers, but still serve the rest of the population.
 "Advertising, though intentional, is supposed to create awareness to inform. But when it comes to the media, it is its lifeline, so providing such support to APA is actually sustaining our business,” Lyomu said. 
 ALSO READ:

Japanese martial arts Aikido seminar held in Nairobi 

