Some in Kenya, it seems are obsessed with image and appearance over substance. A few Kenyans are keeping score of how many nations attended President Kenyatta’s inauguration, or how many foreign ministries have sent their official congratulations.
 However, while these Kenyan commentators are keeping score of these deeply unimportant facts, the Government of Kenya and many members of the international community are moving ahead to embolden relations at all levels that can only serve our national interests. 
 ALSO READ:

Seek urgent interventions for soaring youth unemployment

 This week, Liu Xianfa, the Ambassador of China, the world’s second largest economy, said during a speech, that “Over the years, the cooperation between China and Kenya has been significantly deepened.”
 Ambassador Liu gave these remarks as he awarded scholarships to Kenyan students at the University of Nairobi.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Strong partners
 Of course, many will know that the Chinese have been full partners in many development infrastructure projects in Kenya, like the construction of the SGR, but also in higher education, road construction and aviation, among many other areas.
 As the Chinese Ambassador, and other Chinese officials have said, this is largely down to a clear enunciation of foreign policy.
 Last week, the Governments of Kenya and Ireland signed a five-year agreement to enable local farmers export produce to the Irish market, including launching the Africa Agri-Food Development Programme which will provide Sh3.1 million grants for Kenyan farmers.
 These and many other agreements and explorations to deepen relations are taking place before President Kenyatta has even named a new cabinet for his second term.
 It is clear that, at least as far as the international community is concerned, the days of instability are behind Kenya and it has a clearly legitimate and recognized president who is keen to conduct business around the world. 
 ALSO READ:

Eastlands blamed for recent food poisoning in city hotels

 Since 2013, Kenya has grown its global footprint and signed multiple agreements on various levels to increase direct foreign investment.
 Kenya was invited to the elite club of nations as a participant at G7 events, and the stream of leaders who added Kenya as an essential stop on the diplomatic calendar improved our growing status.
 This was largely due to the fact that one of President Kenyatta’s first acts when he assumed office was to formulate a written foreign policy which provided a broad framework on Kenya’s foreign relations and diplomatic engagements within a contemporary globalized environment.
 The vision driving Kenya’s Foreign Policy agenda is the pursuit of ‘A peaceful, prosperous and globally competitive Kenya’ while the mission is “To project, promote and protect Kenya’s interests and image globally through innovative diplomacy, and contribute towards a just, peaceful and equitable world”.
 Significant transition
 Kenya’s foreign policy has undergone a significant transition in response to the emerging trends in international affairs such as globalization, regional integration and security threats to new and non-conventional global peace and stability.
 Several national objectives were enunciated, to protect Kenya’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, promote integration, enhance regional peace and security, advance the economic prosperity of Kenya and her people, project Kenya’s image and prestige, promote multilateralism and support the interests of the Kenyan Diaspora and partnership with the Kenyans abroad. 
 ALSO READ:

Plastic bags still on sale as Kenyans struggle to adjust

 Over the last few years, since the writing of this document, Kenyan foreign policy has undergone a robust and important overhaul to the benefit of the nation’s standing in the world.
 Some of the world’s most influential leaders have come to Kenya. From former US President Barack Obama to Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. They have all visited Kenya over the last few years.
 They did not just come to enjoy Kenyan hospitality. Their visits gave a thumb of approval for Brand Kenya
 This is happening right now even as some commentators hypnotise the public with uninteresting facts about who attended and tweeted what. Here’s what matters; over the last four years, the country netted over $1.5 billion from direct foreign investment as a result of these activities.
 Those numbers tell a story, a great story.
 Mr Temba is a communication consultant.
