NASA has criticised President Uhuru Kenyatta for not condemning police killings and brutality meted on innocent Kenyans during this year’s election period.
 In a statement to newsrooms Sunday afternoon, NASA said President Uhuru was supposed to advice police to stop killing innocent Kenyans instead of commending them for the job well done during the election period. 
 ALSO READ:

Jubilee takes advantage of divisions within NASA

 “By praising police who killed, Uhuru Kenyatta made himself accountable for the killings.”
 NASA insists that they cannot recognise Uhuru Kenyatta’s presidency.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 The NASA leadership wondered why security forces were unleashed to go on another killing spree against those gathering peacefully for a memorial ceremony for the dead at Jacaranda Gardens.
 “Indeed, on that day of his installation, his regime revealed yet another side of its depravity when it trucked in tonnes of human waste and poured it at the very spot where the dead were to be memorialized.”
 According to NASA, there was also the intention in the message to signal to the police there should be no letup in the brutality being wreaked on Kenyans in the continuing attempt to intimidate them from protesting the regime’s lawless actions.  
 The opposition insists that police are being used by the Jubilee government to continue denying the people their right to assemble peacefully, attacking any who sought to gather against the police’s arbitrary and unlawful bans.
 “They not only assaulted and killed many of those who wanted to welcome home the leader of the party they love, they actually attacked with live ammunition NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga’s car in which he was travelling when he returned from the US last month. Can you imagine what might have happened if one of the shots had penetrated the bullet proof windshield? It’s as if the country’s stability does not matter in the drive to keep everyone intimidated from even showing support for NASA,” read part of the NASA statement.  
 
 ALSO READ:

Kenyans in diaspora support Raila’s swearing in

