Political analyst Mutahi Ngunyi has taken a dig at National Super Alliance (Nasa) strategist, Dr David Ndii, following his arrest on Sunday night.
 According to Mr Ngunyi, Nasa leader Raila Odinga was using Dr Ndii to gain political mileage. 
 ALSO READ:

Kalembe Ndile threatens to pull out of Jubilee Party

 The controversial analyst added Ndii was naive and would suffer the consequences alone.  
 “David Ndii is being naive with his braggadocio. His wife should not talk about under-clothes on TV. The couple is being used by foxy Baba," Mutahi said in a tweet.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Ndii was released from custody on Monday.
 The renowned economist was released on a police bond of Sh10, 000 from the Pangani Police Station in Nairobi.
 The Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Keriako Tobiko had earlier ordered the release of the economist.
 Mr Tobiko, ordered the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) to free Ndii on police bond pending investigations.
 Further, the DPP directed that once investigations are completed, the resultant inquiry file be forwarded to the National Prosecution Authority for appropriate directions.
 Ndii’s wife, Mwende Gatabaki, had also asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to order the release her husband. 
 ALSO READ:

Raila claims bid to kill dissent as Ndii freed without charge

 An incensed Mwende recounted how seven police officers, two of whom were armed, stormed into their hotel room on Sunday evening and demanded to search their baggage.
 Mwende was at first reluctant and demanded a search warrant from the officers, which demand was vaguely turned down before complying.
  “The police had to write the search warrant three times because they kept on correcting it. At some point they were referring to me as ‘suspect,'' said Mwende.
 Ndii was at Leopard Beach Hotel in Kwale at the time of his apprehension.
 He was arrested on suspicion of inciting violence.
  
 
 ALSO READ:

Why NASA's David Ndii attracts respect and disdain in same measure

