A former MP has claimed he was wrongly linked to the murder of former IEBC ICT manager Chris Msando.
 Former Ugenya MP David Ochieng, who lost to Christopher Karan in the August 8 election, claimed the legislator, in the company of his supporters, went to Msando’s home in Lifunga village on August 1, and told mourners not to allow him to the funeral, as he was involved in the murder. 
 ALSO READ:

Two street children who excelled in KCPE scavenge for plastics to raise fees

 “This was the lowest moment during the campaigns, but I told my people to leave it to God,” said Mr Ochieng.
 The Movement for Democracy and Growth Party leader said the ODM brigade in Ugenya declared war on anybody perceived to be his supporter.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 This is one of the numerous allegations contained in a petition Ochieng has filed challenging Karan’s election.
 He said the election was conducted in "utter violation and disregard of the Constitution and the laws governing the exercise."
 Ochieng, during cross-examination by his lead counsel Richard Kwach, said the ODM party led a campaign which targeted his reputation, and engaged in electoral malpractices which spilled over to the voting day.
 “My opponent, having been aware that there was a Jubilee Party candidate in the contest, went ahead to link my party to Jubilee, telling voters that a vote to me was a vote to Jubilee Party and its presidential candidate Uhuru Kenyatta,” said Ochieng.
 He told the court that leaders threatened voters by telling them that the coalition had laid down technological structures, linked to the KIEMS system, which would allow them to identify those who vote for Ochieng, which would attract consequences.
 Ochieng’s testimony corroborated other witnesses' accounts of the events on election day. Some said that illiterate voters were told to say ‘Raila gi lange’ (Raila and his people) when being assisted to vote. 
 ALSO READ:

Drama as fans throng Airport to see off Raila to Nairobi

