There seems to be a whiff of fresh air in the country after emerged that a group of clergy, diplomats and business community representatives are on the verge of having Jubilee Party and the National Super Alliance (NASA) opening much needed dialogue. The time to have dialogue and put the country on a unified path after the controversial presidential election is now. The talks are long overdue. There is no doubt that the country is deeply polarised.
 Kenyans are more divided than ever before and after many years, talks of secession have emerged, complete with maps and flags of a divided country. Still, Kenya must remain united. The diversity of all the communities is what makes us shine globally. That must be guarded jealously. Kenya must not allow politics to destroy it. It is therefore of paramount importance that a window for dialogue must be opened now. The religious leaders, business people, Jubilee, NASA and other key players must burn the midnight oil to cool down political tempers. 
 ALSO READ:

Mr President, let new term define your legacy

 Most importantly, President Uhuru Kenyatta should sit down with his political nemesis Raila Odinga and agree on how they can take this country forward. Kenyans are tired of political bickering and fights among between leaders from both sides. We should not wait for outsiders to come and encourage us to glue together. The efforts by envoys should only complement any such initiatives.
 More important in the talks is to find lasting solutions to aired grievances and address electoral injustices that threaten to explode every five years. The time for political posturing and grandstanding is over. President Kenyatta and Raila should lead the initiative with a clear mind that all Kenyans want a better life which can only be guaranteed by peaceful co-existance. From Lamu to Turkana and Mandera to Busia, the priority for Kenyans is access to health care, education, jobs, economic empowerment and a better life for themselves and their children. The leaders should respect those aspirations. Let the two top leaders lead Kenyans in seeking unity and progress.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

