Monday is Christmas and Kenyans will take a well-deserved break from their daily activities to celebrate with their loved ones, and to remind themselves of their purpose in life.
 From cities like Nairobi and Kisumu to towns such as Eldoret and Nakuru to the sandy beaches of Mombasa and elsewhere, Kenyans of all walks of life will commemorate the birth of Jesus Christ with fun and a sense of self-assurance. 
 ALSO READ:

Kenyans to wait longer for new notes

 Everyone will spread cheer and rejoice in the reason for the season, just like the cheers that dominated when the prophecy of Virgin Mary conceiving and giving birth to Christ (Isaiah 7) came to pass.
 To Christians, Christmas is certainly the time for people to thank God for his providential care throughout the year. It is that period when people selflessly reach out to others, while at the same time trusting the Almighty to renew their strength and give them of a better tomorrow.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Despite our challenges in the year 2017, the festive season should ideally allow us the chance to collectively celebrate the strides Kenya made be it in the economic, political, sporting or social spheres. We take this earliest opportunity to urge Kenyans to make the best out of the festive season while reminding themselves of what will bring meaning and richness to our nationhood in the New Year. Everything we do should unite us and add value to the Kenyan dream.
 The political upheavals of 2017 left the country divided and deeply polarised. Half the country is downright disillusioned after the divisive presidential elections of August 8 and October 26. But we believe this festive spirit should inspire us to forgive, reach out and reflect on each and every national challenge, and our roles in addressing them. Everyone should be their neighbours’ keeper.
 We urge caution as the festivities set in. There are millions of people who will indulge in all manner of merry-making while oblivious of the lurking dangers. In the last three weeks alone, close to 70 people have been killed in road carnage caused by human error. Only yesterday, seven people perished in Sultan Hamud.
 Yes, this is the time to exercise restraint, knowing that criminals, including terrorists, could take advantage of the season to kill and maim. Insecurity will a conspicuous challenge. Heeding basic precautions could save lives and property.
 As we pointed out last week, Christmas should never revolve around merry making alone. Regardless of one’s religion, interests or culture, we should celebrate it fully aware of our roles and responsibilities in January 2018. We shouldn’t be turning Christmas into a period of feverish shopping because next month will come with serious a huge financial burden on top of the usual back-to-school expenses. Depending on how we carry ourselves, the festivities could be a source of joy or distress.
 The year 2017 has had its share of challenges which we urge President Uhuru Kenyatta to address. He has to unite the country at whatever cost. He should do everything within his powers to accelerate economic growth which took a beating from the post-election upheavals. Only bold actions will restore the economic leverage we once enjoyed over our neighbours. The country needs jobs, better hospitals, better roads and schools to improve the quality of life for citizens. 
 ALSO READ:

Uhuru’s vision for Kenya’s prosperity

 There is nothing Kenyans will gain from sustained political competition between the President and Opposition chief Raila Odinga. In the New Year, real nation building should begin, hinged on true nationhood. Real dialogue must take place. Pride and chest-thumping will only leave us with a frustrating sense of helplessness.
 Again, President Kenyatta has the task of ensuring negative ethnicity does not kill the Kenyan dream. Any country where citizens belong to their tribes first before the nation condemns itself to self-destruction. Our sense of nationhood should always superseded political interests. We look forward to a new Kenya in 2018.At the Standard Group, we wish everyone the best of luck as they commemorate the birth of Jesus Christ. Merry Christmas and Happy New Year. 
