Elgeyo Marakwet County chief accountant Edwin Kipkosgei who was born without legs and has only one hand in Sacha, Keiyo South. [Nanjinia Wamuswa, Standard]
 When Edwin Kipkosgei completed university in 2006, it wasn’t easy hunting for a job. Mr Kipkosgei was born without legs and has only the left hand. During interviews, potential employers denied him the job because of disability.
 He recalls in one of the interviews being asked if he could count money. “That question almost choked me to death. Why did they think that having a disability could compromise my ability,” he wondered.
 Kipkosgei lost two bank jobs after they were given to people he had beaten during interviews.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 In 2014 the Elgeyo Marakwet County Government looked beyond his disability and picked him as the Chief Accountant of the revenue department.
 But it has not been a smooth journey for Kipkosgei. Born in 1982 in Sacha, Keiyo South, his mother at one point put him in harms hoping that he could die.
 Learned the hard way
 “She placed the baby on the path leading to the river where thousands of cattle used to pass as they went to take water hoping that they could trample him to death,” said Sister Alice Chelelgo from the Catholic diocese of Eldoret, who took care of Kipkosgei.
 “Mysteriously, he survived. He’s lucky to be alive today. God shielded him from death,” Sister Alice added.
 His grandmother learned of the incident and picked him.
 This writer found Kipkosgei outside his rented house in Iten town.  “I live here. Its near my workplace,” he said.
 He has so much gratitude to Sister Alice whom he refers to as his mother: “If she never came into my life, l don’t know what would have become of me today.”
 The nun met the chief accountant and his grandmother in 1989. Advanced in age, the grandmother was struggling to fend for him.
 Sister Alice offered to help at a time the community viewed Kipkosgei as a cursed child, and avoided him like a plague.
 Alone with a frail grandmother, he learned how to wash, cook and do everything for himself. “I learned the hard way,” he said.
 Sister Alice and the church offered to pay his school fees marking a long journey filled with challenges in search of education. The last born in a family of six -three girls and three boys, recounts: “This was the first time l started using a wheelchair.”
 At Kobil Primary, Kipkosgei sat alone on the desk as other pupils feared him. But the love of the teachers motivated him to stay in school.
 Take him home
 Being a boarding school, family members never turned up to pick him when they closed for holidays. The nun would come from Eldoret and take him home and accompany him to school on opening day.
 Today, he is the only one who has acquired a degree in their family. He said: “I forgave everyone. I help them whenever need arises. It is unfortunate my parents died. I would have taken care of them.”
 He sat for KCPE in 1996 and scored 479 marks out of 700 marks. Luckily for Kipkosgei, Cheshire Disability Services Kenya (CDSK), a non-governmental organisation sponsored his secondary and university education.
 In 1997, he joined St Patrick’s Iten High School and sat for KCSE in 2000 scoring B.
 Kipkosgei was admitted to Moi University to do Business Management.
 Initially, he wanted to study law but he failed to meet the cut off points for the course.
 At one point he contemplated quitting the university because he had difficulty moving around and using facilities.
 He recounted, “Going to lecture halls was a nightmare. There was no ample space for me and I had to push and struggle with other students to learn.”
 Luckily, he joined the university alongside seven students from his former school who aided him to move around.
 Kipkosgei however, felt he was a bother to them and sought help from the dean of students who assigned him a caregiver.
 After unsuccessfully looking for employment he decided to enroll for Masters in Business Administration in 2009 at Moi University which was sponsored by CDSK.
 It was a relief in 2012 when Mt Kenya University, Eldoret campus, offered him a teaching job for a year.
 “I got only two lessons due to high competition, and this did not give me enough money,” he said.
 He moved to the institution’s Lodwar campus where he had ample time as their was no competition. “In Lodwar, l had many lessons that translated to good money.” 
 Kipkosgei revealed that he never dated while at the university for fear of rejection.
 “I knew they would reject me,” he said amid laughter.
 In 2012, he met a woman in Eldoret whom he later married.
 A conservative Kipkosgei declined to divulge more details on their meeting, citing culture that does not allow men to publicly talk about their families.
 “We are happily married with two children; girl aged five and boy two and half years. My wife has no disability. The children love me a lot,” he said.
 Kipkosgei’s achievements have made the community to change the negative perception about persons with disability.
 “They are now taking their children to school. I know of several people knocking on every door to seek opportunities for their children with disabilities,” he said.
 Kipkosgei is grateful to Cheshire organisation for sponsoring his education.
