Police in Kongoni, Naivasha are holding a 13-year-old boy for allegedly defiling a three-year-old girl.
 The teenager escaped lynching from irate members of the public following the bizarre ordeal in Moi Ndabibi area 40kms from Naivasha town. 
 ALSO READ:

Sex abuse has no place in this society

 The child was rushed to Naivasha sub-county hospital for treatment following the incident that left many in shock.
 The suspect according to neighbors had been left to take care of the minor as the mother rushed to the hospital when the incident occurred.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Confirming the incident, Naivasha assistant county commissioner Joseph Opondo said that the suspect had been living with the family when the incident occurred.
 He added that one of the minors fell sick forcing the mother to leave behind the minor in the company of the teenager.
 “When the mother came back she found the minor bleeding she asked the teenager who gave contradicting stories before he was arrested,” he said.
 Opondo said that the teenager who had dropped out of school in class three would be charged in court with various offences once police were through with their investigations.
 This comes days after a pastor with one of the evangelical churches in Naivasha was arrested in one of the estates for defiling a five year old girl.
 The pastor from KCC village along the Nairobi-Nakuru highway was nabbed hours after the incident after the minor reported the matter to her parents. 
 ALSO READ:

Woman gang-rape, killed in Rongai

 According to a witness Adam Wafula, the pastor had lured the minor into his house using some sweets when he turned against her.
 “The pastor who is well known in this estate later gave the minor Sh50 and told her to keep quiet over the issue that has left area residents seething with anger,” he said.
 Naivasha sub-county commissioner Isaac Masinde confirmed the incident noting that cases of child abuse were on the rise in informal estates in the area.
 He called on members of the public to work with chiefs in dealing with the rising cases of defilement adding that no suspect would be spared.
 “We have had two bizarre incidents where very young minors have been sexually abused by their mentors and we are keen to address this emerging problem,” he said.
