Police say men have been linked to three murders in Kiambu County Court hears how the accused robbed Musyoka of Sh200,000 and shot him thrice  
 Three suspects in the shooting of Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu’s driver were yesterday arraigned at the Kibera Law Courts.
 
 ALSO READ:

Four suspected robbers shot dead in Machakos

 James Wachira, Erick Njuguna and Everyncy Khalifwa were charged with robbery with violence following the attack on police constable Titus Musyoka.
 They denied the charge before Kibera Magistrate Joyce Ngandani.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 The court heard they committed the offence on October 24, this year at Ngon’g road, opposite the Impala Club in Dagorreti Sub-County.
 Three times
 They are said to have been armed with a pistol when they robbed Musyoka of Sh200,000 and shot him three times near Marsabit Plaza during the October 24 attack. The driver’s gun was also stolen.
 Earlier, the suspects had been arraigned at the Kikuyu Law Courts before Principal Magistrate D Musyoka who ordered them to be detained for 14 days pending police investigation
 According to a miscellaneous application tabled before the court, the accused are alleged to have robbed the police corporal who was attached to the Deputy Chief Justice as a driver.
 The court heard during the robbery, the DCJ’s driver was shot twice on the left jaw and shoulder with a Jericho model pistol loaded with 15 rounds of 9mm ammunition. 
 ALSO READ:

27-year-old shot dead by bandits in Samburu East

 The pistol is said to have been taken from the victim by the accused that were using a motorcycle of registration number KMDW 868H.
 Detectives had then said they needed more time to establish the ownership of the said motorcycle and arrest their co-accused who is at large. The trio were arrested in Ruiru on November 17 and a gun stolen from the driver during the attack along Ngong road recovered.
 The suspects are also set to face murder charges.
 Police say they have been linked to more than five robbery incidents and three murders in Kiambu County.
