National Super Alliance (NASA) strategist Dr David Ndii has spoken out in public for the first time since his release from the Pangani Police Station on Monday December 4, 2017.
 Dr Ndii recounted his moments with police officers after he was taken to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) over alleged incitement charges. 
 ALSO READ:

Foreign envoys praise President Uhuru for commitment to rule of law

 "If you are with ten armed policemen in the forest in the middle of the night you can only fear for the worst," said Ndii.
 The renowned economist blasted the Jubilee Government for using rogue and unconstitutional means to intimidate him. He also vowed that through the People’s Assembly, Kenyans would be protected from dictatorship the Jubilee regime is currently using.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “When I was abducted in Kwale and driven overnight to Nairobi, the charges I was accused of….senior officers there put in front of me a piece of fake news. I do not believe that the Kenyan State in all its intelligence is unable to distinguish things that are genuine and things that are actually fake. So clearly that was an excuse.
 “If the Jubilee administration decides to go extralegal then there is absolutely nothing law abiding people can do if their government goes rogue. It becomes the responsibility of citizens to see how they navigate themselves out of a situation where the state is captured by a rogue regime and that is why we have constituted the People’s Assembly,” said Ndii.
 Ndii was accompanied by other People’s Assembly leaders at the Wiper Headquarters in Nairobi on Saturday.
 
 Ndii was released on a police bond of Sh10, 000.
 The Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Keriako Tobiko had ordered the release of the economist pending investigations. 
 ALSO READ:

Woman in Raila’s Zanzibar photo speaks out

 Further, the DPP directed that once investigations were completed, the resultant inquiry file be forwarded to the National Prosecution Authority for appropriate directions.
 Ndii was appointed by NASA coalition to head the People’s Assembly National Steering Committee among other six leaders.
 The team comprises; Judy Sijeny, Hamida Kibwana, Dr Mutakha Kangu, Oduor Ong’wen, Koitamet ole Kina and former East African Legislative Assembly MP Peter Mathuki.
