The People’s Assembly motion has suffered a setback after the Nairobi County Assembly declined to allocate time for the debate of the motion.
 Among other things, the motion seeks to establish a ‘people driven government’ and not recognise President Uhuru Kenyatta as the duely and legitimately elected President of Kenya. 
 ALSO READ:

Aden Duale writes to Controller of Budget over People's Assembly

 The County Assembly House Business Committee (HBC) chaired by County Speaker, Beatrice Elachi and vice chair Abdi Guyo declined to give the motion a go ahead citing it was illegal.
 Abdi Guyo who also doubles up as the majority leader observed that there was already a court order in place barring the debate of the said motion.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “The County Assembly is an institution mandated to uphold the integrity of the constitution and we will not entertain any such motion on the grounds that it is illegal,” he stated.
 The matopeni ward representative further said that the only Assembly they recognise was on public participation, which the County had already conducted on Tuesday.
 “We will make sure that the motion is not tabled by all means. In fact any County Assembly in the Country that has passed the motion should be surcharged because they are using tax payers’ money to engage in an illegal activity,” added Guyo.
 Minority Chief Whip, Peter Imwatok who was the engineer of the motion, however claimed that he would still push for the motion to be tabled for debate claiming that the court order could be fake.
 Imwatok recounted how he was ready to introduce the motion for debate on Wednesday last week but before he could, he was issued with a ‘gag’ order from the Assembly’s leadership.
 “The opposition had already set the people’s Assembly motion and was ready to file it but the Jubilee affiliated leaders gave me a gag order,” said Imwatok. 
 ALSO READ:

Why NASA suspended the demonstrations

 Adding, “We are ready to file the motion as soon as tomorrow we are just waiting on the County clerk to authenticate whether the court order is real and we will proceed.”
 The motion seen by The Metropolitan is calling on the County Assemblies to declare the Presidential elections held on August 8 and October 26 declared null and void and deny the formed government/President the legitimacy to govern.
 It also calls for the setting up of an Electoral and boundaries commission with a view of holding a fresh Presidential election on or before February 9 2018.
 “A review of the constitution of Kenya 2010 be undertaken to reform the structure of the executive and Parliament and devolution and to reinforce measures for the promotion of inclusivity,” reads the motion.
 Only 12 out of 47 County assemblies have passed the motion. They are: Busia, Homa Bay, Kakamega, Kilifi, Kisumu, Kitui, Kwale, Makueni, Migori, Mombasa, Siaya and Vihiga.
