Until his death on Wednesday, Kitui West MP Francis Mwanzia Nyenze had distinguished himself as a sweet-tongued, smooth operator who had warmed his way to the hearts of his constituents through unmatched humility and mastery of the Kamba langauge.
 But the legislator popularly known as ‘Shabiki’ by supporters, might have been humbled by a 10-year stint in the cold when his constituents voted him out after serving for only one term between 1997 and 2002. 
 ALSO READ:

Kalonzo had a soft spot for dissenting Nyenze

 Then, Nyenze was part of the blue-eyed Kanu boys and soon earned the admiration of President Daniel Moi who appointed him to the Cabinet. At one time during political campaigns, Nyenze confessed that the abrupt hurl into high public office and big money might have got into his head.
 High-voltage politics




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Kitui West was then characterised by high-voltage politics between Nyenze and Nyiva Mwendwa, who had also been a close ally of Moi before their political relationship nosedived as Nyenze came into the scene.
 At one time while serving as minister, Nyenze is said to have slapped a woman in his opponent’s camp during a heated campaign.
 In 2002, Nyenze who had earlier dislodged Mrs Mwendwa, was sent packing as constituents voted her back. Many believe he lost for sticking with Kanu when everybody else was scampering for Narc.
 Sadly for Nyenze, he would lose the seat again in 2007 alongside Mrs Mwendwa. Both lost to a newbie, Charles Nyamai, who had the backing of Narc leader Charity Ngilu. The two losses took a toll on Nyenze as he sank deeper into political oblivion.
 But a year before the 2013 General Election, Nyenze, a son of a renowned AIC pastor, seemed to have retraced his steps and found value in the power of confession and repentance.
 By this time, then Water Minister Charity Ngilu had come to his rescue and appointed him the chairman of Water Resources Management Authority (WRMA) and later as director of National Irrigation Board. 
 ALSO READ:

Kitui West MP Francis Nyenze dead 

 Nyenze took advantage of these positions to endear himself to the electorate who had twice rejected him as he prepared for his comeback.
 During a visit to a water catchment area in his constituency, Nyenze left the crowd, composed mainly of women, in stitches when he pleaded in mother tongue: “My people, when one wrongs he is forgiven, don’t you agree? I know I might have wronged you but I seek forgiveness. You have left me to suffer for so long, will you allow your son to continue languishing in poverty?”
 The crowd burst in laughter before saying they had forgiven him.
 While his opponents traversed the constituency issuing vain and pompous promises, Nyenze was literally on a bent knee, choosing the unpopular path of confession and repentance.
 Meekness
 Soon his meekness paid off and he won the seat with a landslide before being appointed as the National Assembly Minority Leader by the Wiper party in the 11th Parliament. Although sickly, he recaptured the seat in August this year and led the constituency until colon cancer claimed his life.
 It was during his last term however that he won the Jubilee mole tag for his lackluster performance as Minority Leader, with many in the opposition speculating that he had gone to bed with the government.
 His lone press conferences in which he would attack the ODM wing of the National Super Alliance (NASA) with claims that Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka would go it alone should he not be appointed the flag-bearer also fuelled rumours that he was re-enacting a Jubilee script.
 Nyenze however never bothered to dispel the mole tag and was not ashamed of being associated with the Jubilee administration.
 For instance, during a tour of his constituency with Youth Affairs Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki, the MP told the crowd: “Can you forget a person who has done good for you? Can you forget Uhuru Kenyatta? There is nothing for free.”
 This was seen as lobbying for re-election of President Kenyatta, which earned him instant condemnation.
