The Siaya County government did not get value for money when it acquired land for the proposed Barack Obama University, the Auditor General has said.
 Edward Ouko said in a report that the county executive advertised for purchase of land without buildings but went ahead to purchase land with developments. 
 ALSO READ:

Former Governor Evans Kidero on the spot over city finances

 "The propriety and validity of the expenditure of Sh19,300,000 incurred on purchase of the proposed university's land during the year under review  (2015-2016) cannot be confirmed to have been a proper charge on public funds," read the report.
 Mr Ouko's report exposed unverified expenditure by the executive. The governor's office got a budget allocation of Sh82.3 million in the 2015-2016 financial year but there was unexplained differences on the anomalies.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 According the Auditor General, the governor's office exceeded its current budget by Sh6.2 million, translating to 108 per cent budget absorption rate.
 Siaya County could not account for Sh5.7 million paid to a company to supply sewing machines.
 According to the auditor, the county executive awarded the company to supply sewing machines through requests for quotation method contrary to section 59 of Public Procurement and Proposal Regulation, 2013, which prescribes Sh2 million as the maximum level of expenditure under this method.
 The engagement of casual revenue collectors at a cost of Sh13.6 million was also suspect, according to the report.
 Casuals were engaged at a monthly salary of Sh7,000 as opposed to Sh15,425 minimum wage rate recommended by the Ministry of Labour, the report said.
 "The management breached labour laws on employment of casuals," said the report. 
 ALSO READ:

Auditor queries billions unaccounted for in Central counties

 Out of the aggregate revenue of Sh135.4 million, only Sh128 million was banked, resulting in unexplained under-banking of Sh7.2 million.
