In any democratic dispensation, the process of achieving and predicting economic growth levels and performance is often pegged to the stability of the country’s political atmosphere. The electioneering process has repeatedly had far-reaching ramifications, often slowing economic growth, to the detriment of the country’s youths.
 A study done jointly by the Institute of Economic Affairs (IEA) and a local publisher indicates there is a 60 per cent likelihood of a slump in economic growth during an election year in Kenya since the introduction of multi-party politics. 
 ALSO READ:

MPs threaten to leave NASA

 As youths, we now find our fortunes shrouded in political unrest. Our key challenges such as food insecurity, unemployment and lack of access to healthcare are further exacerbated by escalating violent demonstrations.
 Instead of the media highlighting the key role politicians play in precipitating electoral violence, youths become the key target of media vilification. This is irrespective of the fact that only a small percentage accept cash inducements to stir up chaos.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 These demonstrations, whatever our political or religious persuasions, have had a tremendous impact on every Kenyan youth, with their incomes shrinking and others losing their jobs altogether.
 Bad influence
 In these uncertain times, the ones lowest in job ranks; the newly employed, who are mostly youths, will bear the brunt of depressed economic growth. In a country where the median age is estimated to be 19 years, and about 80 per cent of the population is below 35 years, the prolonged electioneering process will therefore affect young people more than any other demographic.
 Polarising campaign narratives that often espouse ethnicity, as opposed to constructive ideologies, often results in identity crises among youths. As older generations influence them to vote along tribal lines, they are often torn between ethnicity and nationalism.
 In a survey commissioned by Ji-Activate, an initiative that aims to elevate the voice of the Kenyan youth, it was established that some of the top issues affecting them include corruption, food insecurity, healthcare and unemployment. Political grandstanding thus only perpetuates a vicious cycle, creating a vortex that sucks their hope and aspirations.
 Devolution has also been instrumental in the quest for youth empowerment, with country governments required to nominate members to represent special interests, including those of youths. However, they are yet to grasp the potential impact of devolution on their well being. 
 ALSO READ:

NASA in plot to block new Cabinet

 Empowering youths
 Article 98 of the Constitution requires that Senate must have at least two members - one man and one woman - representing youths. Cases of canvassing and political patronage are denying these very opportunities, therefore sidelining youths in economic and political decision making at county level.
 An estimated 700,000 young people enter the job market every year. The challenge then becomes expanding and growing the economy to generate sufficient job opportunities to match the number of young Kenyans joining the labour market.
 It is therefore critical for the political class to focus on creating the right environment to attract investment, rather than in engage in brinkmanship that could roll back benefits gained from devolution, and the implementation of other youth-based initiatives.
 Through collaboration and leveraging their research outcome, these initiatives, Government and the private sector have the opportunity to empower youths to become drivers of the social and economic change they yearn for.
 The annulled presidential election resulted in pockets of violence, which saw the economy experience a downturn. The economic growth momentum was restrained by business disruptions as many producers in key sectors adopted a wait-and-see attitude.
 It is therefore apparent that if political leaders do not pull the country back from the cliff edge, the ensuing unrest and demonstrations are likely to void any headway made towards youth empowerment. These seasonal but vicious disruptions are also likely to influence how youths perceive political leadership and the role they play in the future of our country. 
 ALSO READ:

Jubilee rewards poll losers with EALA nominations

  Ms Wako is the founder of Siasa Place
