National Super Alliance (NASA) supporters in the United Kingdom (UK) will on 23rd December hold end of year family fundraising dinner in London to help raise funds to support victims of violence in Kenya.
 The event will be held at Hyatt Place, a 4 star West London Business Hotel in Hayes.  Dinner Party starts at 2.00pm and goes on until early hours of Sunday morning. The entrance fee is Sh3,300 per head. 
 ALSO READ:

Miguna recounts his ordeal under detention

 According to the NASA-UK Organising Secretary, Erick Ogello, committee is targeting to raise Sh1 million on the day from both entry fee and proceeds from sale of food and drinks.
 Ogello said all proceeds will go towards the victims of violence kitty most of whom are poor with no means to pay for hospital bills or bury the dead.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Ogello said: “It’s a desperate situation we are dealing with which we have to come together and help as we hear dead bodies are lying in the mortuary with no one to help with burial expenses and the injured cannot access medical care because they cannot afford the high hospital bills.”
 NASA UK Organizing Committee Chairman Kivindyo Ndivo said the fundraiser will cater for hospital bills of some of the injured protesters whose hospital bills run in millions.
 A member of the NASA-UK victims of political violence fundraising team Aggrey Kikaya said: “Victims of violence who are ready to be discharged and who cannot be discharged due to unpaid hospital bills are being charged each day they remain in hospital. This not only increases the bills but also they occupy beds that should be used by other deserving patients. This makes it critical financial help is sought urgently.”
 Kivindyo said those who have acted outside the Kenyan and international policing law should be brought to book.
 “The indiscriminate use of live ammunition against protestors is unlawful and all the victims of police brutality must be a case at the local courts or at the International Criminal Court,” said Kivindyo.
 
 ALSO READ:

Why Lukaku refused to celebrate against West brom

