Intense lobbying and fears that the Council of Governors (CoG) would be wrecked from within led to county chiefs arriving at what they termed as ‘take-and-take’ arrangement.
 In a deal that allowed Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok to complete a one-year term before handing over to Kwale’s Salim Mvurya, President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto are said to have influenced the county bosses on the decision. 
 ALSO READ:

President Uhuru inspects 4.5km SGR tunnel in Kajiado

 After over three hours, the governors came out from their closed-door meeting at the Diani Reef Hotel in Kwale on Friday night to announce the lineup.
 There were fears that the National Super Alliance (NASA)-allied governors would walk out of the meeting in protest if consensus failed and they were locked out by the “tyranny of numbers”.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 At the meeting, Jubilee governors were particularly pushing to choose the leadership through a secret ballot but were informed that the law requires that they use consensus.
 It’s at this time that the governors broke into two groups, with those in NASA heading to a different room while their Jubilee counterparts were seen making or receiving calls from presumably their party leadership as they were overheard responding repeatedly, “yes sir”.
 At one time, the governors had contemplated re-affirming Nanok and relegate Mvurya to be vice chair but the Kwale Governor would hear none of it.
 Both Nanok and Mvurya were asked to leave the meeting to allow their colleagues to build consensus on the way forward. President Kenyatta and DP Ruto are said to have prevailed upon Jubilee governors to strike a deal that would not polarise the council, leading to the agreed arrangement.
 “CoG is non-partisan, thus the issue of Jubilee and NASA ceases to influence our decisions. Our intention was to ensure both NASA and Jubilee elected governors have an equal opportunity to lead the council,” said Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko.
 Murang’a Governor Mwangi Wa Iria added: “We have always elected our leaders through consensus and that was not about to change tonight.” 
 ALSO READ:

Has Raila been outdone this time round?

 Jubilee, with a relative majority, was intent on taking both the chair and vice chair’s positions. Kirinyaga county chief Anne Waiguru was named vice chairperson.
 “Nanok is instrumental in the current talks seeking to unite the country and removing him could have been counter-productive. That was the message from the President and DP,” a governor, who did not want to be named, told the Sunday Standard.
 Non-partisan
 After the break, the county bosses returned to the meeting and called in journalists after about an hour to tell them they had reached a deal.
 “Governor Nanok will complete his one-year term in the next six months after which the council has decided that Governor Mvurya will take over,” Nanok told the press.
 “The committee membership will be filled depending on the choice each member makes. Each committee must have four to five members for effective functioning.”
 He said the council will continue being non-partisan and ensure all counties flourish. 
 ALSO READ:

Head of State commendations bring dishonor to those who rightfully deserved them

