The death toll of Sunday night's accident near Kilimambogo in Thika East has hit 17.
 Dozens of other people were injured in the horrific accident that involved a matatu and a lorry on the Garissa-Thika highway. 
 ALSO READ:

Government should apologise to Kenyans

 Eleven people were killed on the spot and four others were pronounced dead on arrival at the Thika Level 5 Hospital.
 Two others died while undergoing treatment. Among those who died were a two-year-old girl and a seven-year-old boy.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Two survivors who were in a critical condition were transferred to Kenyatta National Hospital for specialised treatment.
 One patient is currently admitted at the Thika Level 5 Hospital's intensive care unit with serious head injuries.
 Matatu swerved
 Eyewitnesses said the matatu that was heading to Kitui from Nairobi swerved into the path of an oncoming lorry.
 “The matatu swerved to avoid hitting a boda boda rider and had a head-on collision with an oncoming lorry that was heading to Nairobi,” said an eye witness.
 The residents of the nearby Makutano shopping centre said they heard a loud bang followed by screams. 
 ALSO READ:

Curbing road accidents is a collective responsibility

 “When we went to find out what was going on, we found many people in the matatu were dead and a few were writhing in pain,” said Ambrose Munyao.
 The driver of the matatu was among those who died on the spot while the lorry's driver who was trapped in the mangled wreckage for hours and died on arrival at the hospital. 
 Those at the scene blamed the high number of casualties from the crash on delayed arrival of rescue ambulances, which took more than one hour.
 The wreckage of the ill-fated matatu and the lorry were towed to Ngoliba Police Station.
 Bled to death
 Passengers’ belongings such as shoes, clothes, and food are still littering the wreckage of the matatu.
 The seats and the floor of the vehicle are still covered with dry blood. 
 ALSO READ:

17 die in accident along Thika-Garissa Highway 

 Thika Town MP Patrick Wainaina blamed recklessness among road users, laxity among police, and lack of vigilance for the increased number of crashes.
 Mr Wainaina pointed an accusing finger at traffic police and the National Transport and Safety Authority, saying they had failed curb road carnage.
 Overloading and speeding
 The MP said he did not understand how the matatu managed to pass police several roadblocks without being stopped for overloading and speeding.
 “It’s a shame that we lost lives through sheer carelessness and police laxity,” he said.
 The lawmaker called for stricter enforcement of the Michuki rules (introduced by then Transport minister John Michuki) to tame rising cases of road carnage across the country.
