The Kenya National Examinations Council (KNEC) has issued a statement on the release of the 2017 Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) results.
 On Sunday, KNEC dismissed reports that the Ministry of Education is set to release the 2017 KCSE results on Monday December 18, 2017. 
 ALSO READ:

Pupils appeal for school fees in Kakamega

 “Our attention has been drawn to rumours circulating in the social media that the Ministry of Education will be releasing the 2017 Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) examination results on Monday,” reads part of a statement signed by KNEC Chairman Prof George Magoha.
  




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

  
 Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i had in November said his team would continue streamlining the 2017 examinations, saying various Government departments had been mobilised to ensure a smooth process.
 “To strengthen our education system, we need to administer credible exams. There will be no leakage or cheating. The regulations will be two or three times tougher than last year,” he said at Kericho High School, where he witnessed the opening of the exam container.
  
 
 Matiang’I released the 2017 Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) examination results on November 21, 2017. 
 ALSO READ:

How school heads and suppliers stole Sh14b

 Goldalyn Kakuya of St Anne Junior Lubao in Kakamega County emerged top student scoring 455 out of 500 marks.
 According to Kakuya, hard work and discipline were instrumental to her passing.
 “I am really honoured celebrating this, it’s wonderful! I can say sincerely I expected to do well but not to this extent. This has come as a surprise. I dedicate this performance to the people who have supported me throughout my journey in education; my teachers, my friends, my parents and the school,” said Kakuya.
 Mr Harrison Otanga, lauded his daughter for the exemplary performance.
 “My daughter has been leading in her class since she joined the school for her Early Child Development Education. I have always been encouraging her to keep studying hard. I use to tell her that she must never let go other steering wheel and leave the positions to the pupils competing with her. So I am very happy and thankful that she has maintained the position and until she finished a primary school studies,” he said.
 No irregularity was reported for the 1,003,556 candidates that sat for the exams.
 Of the 1,003,556 candidates, 9,846 scored 400 marks and above out of the possible 500. 
 ALSO READ:

Education reforms must aim at improving quality of learning

 The Education CS said all the over 9,000 candidates who managed 400 marks and above would join national secondary schools.
 2, 360 pupils, however, failed to manage 100 marks.
 The CS released the results at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD) in Nairobi.
