A judge has ordered an investigation into claims that a woman facing murder charges was detained with men at Central Police Station in Mombasa who attempted to rape her.
 Julie Mnyazi Mwamuye stunned the court on Wednesday when she claimed detectives investigating the murder of ICT expert and businessman Moiz Esmail-Jee, in which she has been implicated, tortured her and locked her up with male inmates. 
 ALSO READ:

Was slain trader’s kidnapping masterminded from Malindi prison?

 Investigate allegations
 Thursday, Julie, who operated an M-Pesa shop in King'orani, Mombasa, and two others--a man serving a life sentence for murder and a former convict--were formerly indicted for murder but did not plead because the judge asked for their evaluation by a psychiatrist.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Additionally, Justice Dorah Chepkwony ordered the OCS for Central Police Station to investigate Julie's claim and furnish a report to the court before end of yesterday.
 Lady Justice Dorah Chepkwony further ordered the OCS  to investigate allegations Mwamuye was locked up in a cell reserved for men.
 She directed the OCS to report back to her and have Mwamuye taken to Coast General Hospital for treatment.
 “The accused to be escorted to the hospital and the OCS Central Police to investigate the allegations of the accused and report before the court by tomorrow,” said Chepkwony.
 Mwamuye had been detained for 10 days in the police custody pending investigations into her connection to the kidnapping and murder of an Asian ICT expert and businessman.
 Through her lawyer Richard Mbuya, Julie explained to Justice Chepkwony that she was locked up in the men's cell for hours and that there were several attempts to rape her which left her clothes torn. 
 ALSO READ:

Volleyball: KVF National play-offs promise fireworks

 Mwamuye said she was was beaten up which made her to cough blood and to develop breathing and hearing difficulties.
 “My client was forced to be held up in a male cell and there were several attempts to rape her. She was brutally beaten and was even coughing blood,” said Ms Mbuya.
 She said police had harassed her and asked her to stand on the table and entertain them.
 Mwamuye is expected to be charged alongside Adan Abdi Siiba alias Tall and Abdulkarim Musa Ali with the kidnap and murder of Esmaili-Jee. Siiba is currently serving a life sentence in Malindi.
