First Lady Margaret Kenyatta. (Photo: Courtesy) First Lady Margaret Kenyatta has announced that her office will support relief efforts aimed at mitigating drought that has hit various parts of the country. Speaking in North Horr, in Marsabit County Magaret Kenyatta who promised to donate an additional mobile clinic to the vast region decried the magnitude of the drought in the region. &quot;The suffering of the people in the region especially mothers and children is alarming. The distress of owners watching their livestock die is painful,&rdquo; said the First Lady. &quot;The response of the Kenya Red Cross to the drought crisis in the country has seen realistic interventions and we are reminded of generosity and kindness within our borders,&rdquo; she added. ALSO READ: Bandits shoot dead two people in fight over pastures in Mwingi The first lady flagged off lorries in North Horr allotted with foodstuff for the locals. She also visited North Horr Health Centre and witnessed the livestock off take exercise at North Horr Livestock Market. Kenya Red Cross Secretary General Abbas Gullet on the other hand said the Kenya Red Cross is working with other partners and well-wishers to help the affected communities. &ldquo;Kenya Red Cross has been working closely with the County and National Government to address the drought crisis,&quot; said Gullet. He noted that the number of Kenyans who were affected by the drought has gone up. &quot;We can reach more Kenyans in the country with the use of technology, instead of bringing food all the way from Nairobi to the remote areas. Mothers will no longer queue to get maize and beans but they can now get the cash and purchase foodstuff of their choice,&quot; he added. Marsabit County Governor Ukur Yattani termed the First Lady&#39;s visit to North Horr as historic saying the North Horr has never hosted a sitting President or First Lady since the Country got its independence. ALSO READ: Sh215m insurance payout offers relief to drought-hit pastoralists