Deputy President William Ruto has said the Opposition is free to take its campaigns anywhere including the Rift Valley. However, Ruto has challenged the National Super Alliance (NASA) co-principals to tell Kenyans exactly what they have done for this country for the many years they served in government. Addressing a political rally yesterday at Sango Primary School in Likuyani Constituency of Kakamega County, the DP urged the people of Western to reject the Opposition&rsquo;s overtures and carefully choose credible leaders able to manage public resources. &ldquo;They must be held accountable for their past, when they served as senior officials in government. It is surprising that Jubilee has done a lot for the people; more than what past governments did for seven decades,&rdquo; he said. Ruto, who was addressing a rally barely 30 kilometres from 64 Stadium in Eldoret town, where NASA held a major rally, said leaders must be allowed to tour the country and sell their manifesto. &ldquo;I have welcomed them to talk to the people in my backyard. It is important for the people to listen to their leaders and based on their manifesto, make informed decisions,&ldquo; said Ruto. ALSO READ: To send Jubilee home, NASA must go for right candidate The DP dismissed the Opposition as one without a development agenda, and added that the outfit was only good at organising demos. &ldquo;I am happy that you trusted me with your daughter as my wife. You should trust me with your vote,&ldquo; the DP told locals at Sango. Unrealistic power Ruto said the government was committed to completing all development projects in the region, including tarmacking roads&nbsp; and building technical institutes. He said that a 250-kilometre stretch of road will be tarmacked in Kakamega County. &ldquo;The Opposition&rsquo;s quest to share out power and political posts will not create jobs for our youth; Jubilee deserve another term to continue serving the people,&rdquo; he said. He vowed to intensify his tours of Western region to ensure locals vote for Jubilee Party come the August elections. According to him, it would be wrong for him to forsake the people of of that area in arrangements to form next government. &ldquo;I have struggled to bring power close home, you cannot afford to lose it by chasing unrealistic power elsewhere,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: Kanu boys will trick Raila and betray his NASA power dream Ruto accused Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya of allegedly misusing development funds released to the county every year. &ldquo;Kakamega receives Sh10 billion annually for community projects yet there is nothing to show for it,&rsquo;&rsquo; he said. The DP was flanked by Energy CS Charles Keter, MPs Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East), John Waluke (Sirisia), Emmanuel Wangwe (Navakholo) and host Enock Kibunguchi. Also present were Kakamega gubernatorial aspirant Marbella Muruli and political activist Stanley Livondo. Livondo told locals to remain focused and support the re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy. Kibunguchi asked Ruto to help resolve the doctor&rsquo;s strike because it has paralysed the health sector. He added, &ldquo;You must also find a lasting solution to the escalating insecurity in Baringo County by deploying the Kenya Defence Forces to restore calm. Ruto later had rallies at Pan-Paper grounds in Lugari Constituency and Malava. Elsewhere, Kakamega Senator Bonny Khalwale dismissed Ruto&rsquo;s countless trips, saying the Western region will not back a failed administration. Khalwale&rsquo;s sentiments were echoed by Lugari MP Ayub Savula, who said Ruto was wasting time frequenting the area, hoping to win votes. ALSO READ: Senate report on county funds hurts governors' re-election bid