The National Super Alliance (NASA) has promised to strengthen devolution by committing more money to the counties if it forms the next government. The coalition partners also spelt out how they will deal with corruption. Launching the coalition agreement yesterday in Nairobi, NASA principals Raila Odinga (ODM), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Moses Wetang&#39;ula (Ford Kenya), and Musalia Mudavadi (Amani National Congress) also tabled a seven-point plan of how they intend to run Kenya if they win the August 8 elections. The seven-pillar strategy includes supporting devolution, national reconciliation and healing, resolving historical injustices, and realising equality for women, youth, persons with disabilities, and disadvantaged communities and groups. Others include transforming the government, realising social and economic rights, and eradicating poverty and unemployment. &quot;We are committed to strengthening it to the fullest extent possible. We will immediately surrender to the county governments all the functions that the Jubilee coalition has either withheld or usurped,&quot; said Wetang&#39;ula in a joint statement during the unveiling of the coalition agreement. ALSO READ: Secrets of new NASA power deal SHARED FUNCTIONS The coalition leaders also promised that NASA would share other functions such as development of school infrastructure and some aspects of security. According to Odinga, the agreement is the coalition&#39;s agenda for the nation. &quot;This is not a formula for sharing power and dishing out positions. This is a formula for solving the many problems our country is facing. This is our formula for putting honesty at the centre of the management of public affairs. This is our road map for returning hope and happiness to our land,&quot; he said. Musyoka called on the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to promise Kenyans that it will deliver a credible election. &quot;We are supporting the new IEBC team but we agree that there is still rot in the commission. Let the rot be dealt with so that when Kenyans vote in August, their will is reflected,&quot; he said. Musyoka added that NASA would institute a national dialogue to heal divisions in the country. ALSO READ: Raila's daughter, Rosemary, admitted to city hospital Mudavadi called for equality for women, youth, persons with disabilities, and other minority groups. &quot;From the National Youth Service scandal, the plundered Youth and Women funds, affirmative action for the wealthiest women in the country, there is no arena that the Jubilee administration has been as cynical and abusive as in the women and youth agenda,&quot; Mudavadi said. He added that NASA would institute a transformation to cure the country of the colonial hangover so that every public officer, from the president to the lowest rank, will know that are employed by the people to serve, not to rule over them.