Close allies of Deputy President William Ruto believes the DP has come under constant attacks from the opposition and other Jubilee critics because he is the main threat to their future political ambitions. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen told The Standard Ruto is the future of Jubilee hence gives the Opposition and Jubilee critics sleepless nights, because of his loyalty to President Uhuru Kenyatta and commitment to a united coalition. &quot;They know he is the future of Jubilee, he has risen politically more than them and appeals to the entire nation as an able leader besides his commitment to ensure a united Jubilee leadership. That is why they always dig on him in a bid to destabilize his grip. That is their only tactic to bring down the current Government ahead of elections,&quot; said Murkomen. According to Murkomen, Ruto is the stumbling block to the Opposition&#39;s and his challengers political ambition and that is why they always try to paint him in bad light and poke holes into his integrity an approach he says will not affect the Deputy President&#39;s leadership agility. &quot;They point at Ruto because they know President Uhuru Kenyatta will win in August anyway, apart from the President the DP is a stumbling block to the opposition and all other leaders with a dream of ousting Jubilee,&quot; he said Keiyo South MP Jackson Kiptanui said the direct attacks on Ruto on issues that are not even directly under his control as a deputy president are meant to give the impression that the opposition does not have a problem with the President. ALSO READ: Kenya should wake up to girls&rsquo; potential &quot;They want to create an impression that Ruto is the problem in Jubilee and that they are cool with the President. The intention is to portray the DP as not to have a huge support and that the National Super Alliance(NASA) has penetrated his region but it is all not working for them,&quot; he said. He said the attacks and allegations against the DP are meant to split the strong bond between Ruto and Uhuru and eventually bring down Jubilee&#39;s popularity ahead of the elections.