Anti-corruption chairman Eliud Wabukala has welcomed a new law that seeks to punish bribery offenders. Retired Arch-Bishop Wabukala said the Bribery Act 2016 addresses the gap in law by providing two general offences, unlike before when it only focused on public officers. &nbsp;&nbsp; &quot;This rendered it ineffective as bribery is a two-way traffic affair where there is a giver and a taker,&quot; Wabukala said during a seminar on the Bribery Act, 2016, which was attended by Kenya Association of Manufacturers. In the new law, an individual found guilty of bribery - contributor or recipient - shall be liable on conviction to a term not exceeding 10 years or a fine not exceeding Sh5 million or both. They may also be liable for an additional mandatory fine if, as a result of the conduct constituting the offence, the person received a quantifiable or any other person suffered a quantifiable loss. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission boss noted that the act places a bigger responsibility on business entities or private sector to put in place procedures for prevention of the crime. ALSO READ: How NASA plans to solve challenges facing Kenya Kenya Association of Manufacturers chairperson Flora Mutahi said corruption threatens sustainable economic development, ethical values and justice. Meanwhile, a report featuring both voters and aspirants seeking various posts will be launched officially today in Nairobi. Splash money A sneak preview of the survey undertaken in 10 counties shows that a majority of Kenyans see nothing wrong in electing unsuitable candidates who splash money and make unrealistic promises during election campaigns. The findings, contained in a report titled &#39;Voter Bribery as an Election Malpractice in Kenya; A Survey Report Dec 2016&#39;, reveals a deeply rooted culture where election outcome is influenced despite the act being criminalised in law. From each of the 10 counties surveyed, more than 50 per cent confessed that with &#39;something small &#39;, they would elect a candidate without focusing on issues. ALSO READ: Tobiko under fire from defence team for asking court to allow him amend charges against Shollei again