Governors have petitioned President Uhuru Kenyatta to end violence in Baringo and Elgeyo Marakwet counties. In a statement to newsrooms, the governors condemned the continuing violence, loss of life and destruction of property in the two counties. &ldquo;Governors reaffirm that no part of this country should be surrendered to bandits roaming freely, stealing, maiming and killing Kenyans,&rdquo; read part of the statement by Council of Governors (CoG) signed by Chairman Peter Munya. Munya added: &ldquo;President Uhuru, as the Commander-in-Chief, should to take steps to quickly mobilise security forces to end the lawlessness in not just Baringo and Elgeyo Marakwet counties but all the other regions facing inter-ethnic, inter-clan or any other related violence.&rdquo; Munya said CoG is concerned with the deteriorating security situation in Baringo and Elgeyo Marakwet Counties, which has led to displacement of hundreds of residents, hampering relief food distribution to the region and other areas affected by famine in Northern Kenya. &ldquo;Security is a national government function as per the Fourth Schedule of the Constitution, Articles 26(1), (3) and Article 238 of the Kenyan Constitution, guarantees the right to life, security and protection of property,&rdquo; said the Meru governor. The governors also called on Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet to take up his responsibility of protecting all Kenyans. ALSO READ: American lawmakers to probe Obama, Uhuru deal &ldquo;The CoG reminds Interior and Coordination of National Government Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery to abide by the provisions of the Constitution of Kenya that he swore to protect, when he took the oath of office,&rdquo; Munya said. The governors&rsquo; statement comes in the wake of killings in the two regions. Baringo Member of County Assembly together with Jubilee parliamentary aspirant for Tiaty constituency were recently shot dead by masked gunman in Marigat. Loyamorok Ward MCA Frederick Kibet Cheretei together with Simon Kitamba popularly known as Pepe were shot dead at a bar in Marigat near the junction to Kabarnet town. According to Baringo County Commissioner Peter Okwanyo, eight people have been killed in a bandit attack in Baringo North. The attacks have sparked tension in the sub-county, with more than 20 schools being closed. Police have declared the area unsafe and inhabitable. The Kenya Red Cross Society (KRCS) on Saturday suspended all operations in Baringo County and withdrew all its staff and volunteers. This follows confrontation with the residents that led to looting of relief food and harassment of KRCS staff and volunteers at Kambi Samaki. ALSO READ: More aspirants eye Kanu ticket as party plans to back President Uhuru And Nyeri Town MP Easter Murugi yesterday told the national government to move with speed and end the senseless killings in Baringo. Ms Murugi noted the ongoing wave of lawlessness was likely to get out of hand if urgent measures are not put into place to end the menace. She said women and children were worst hit by the ongoing killings, believed to have been spearheaded by armed bandits in the guise of cattle rustling. &ldquo;What we are seeing in Baringo should not be allowed to continue,&rdquo; said the MP who was speaking at African Independent Pentecostal Church of Africa Ngangarithi in Nyeri County.