CORD leader Raila Odinga continued with his political campaigns in Turkana County yesterday, despite the Friday incident in which rowdy youths shot at the crowd, disrupting his rally. The ODM leader is in the region to popularise his presidential bid and mobilise residents to register as voters as the Independent Electoral and Boundaries (IEBC) mass listing closes today. Raila accused the Jubilee administration of rushing to launch projects that never take off after realising that time was running out and the August elections are fast approaching. Speaking at Kakuma town in Turkana West Constituency, Raila said the Jubilee government promised Kenyans a lot, but has not delivered. &ldquo;The Jubilee government has realised that they have done nothing for the years they have been in power. That is why they are running around to launch development projects which never take off,&rdquo; he said. Natural resources ALSO READ: Ignore sideshows, fix public health woes facing Kenya He said the national government should support Turkana County to manage and source for water from the natural underground reservoir at Lotikipi and supply to regions with scarcity. &ldquo;As ODM, CORD and NASA, we have the medicine that will deliver Kenya from the many problems it has suffered. We are saying Jubilee out, they should go home and give way so that we give solutions to challenges facing the country,&rdquo; he said. The former Prime Minister accused the Jubilee government of not protecting its citizens who die every day from insecurity, drought and high poverty. &ldquo;We all have a reason to vote out this government and Turkana residents have major reasons. I was in Kokuro and the insecurity situation there is wanting. People are being killed every day by raiders who terrorise residents. It is the responsibility of the national government to protect its people and their property,&rdquo; Raila said. The ODM leader addressed rallies in Kokuro in Turkana North, Kakuma and Lokichogio. Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok said over 300,000 livestock and thousands of people had been forced to move to Uganda in search of water and pasture. &ldquo;We are in talks with the Ugandan government to see if they can continue to host our people even though drought has affected their country too,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: Why Raila&rsquo;s bag of tricks will backfire this season of deceit And yesterday, some Jubilee Party leaders downplayed claims of disruption of Raila&rsquo;s rally in Katilia onFriday, claiming it was &ldquo;stage-managed and over exaggerated&rdquo;. Turkana South MP James Lomenen said the incident was an attention-seeking ploy by the Opposition. Lomenen said that the youth had been denied entry into the meeting forcing them to react. Turkana Woman Rep Joyce Emanikor condemned the incident and said there was a possibility it was stage-managed. &ldquo;Citizens should learn to tolerate all political leaders and give them time to search for votes. The General Election will tell the truth about our political inclination through the casting of ballots,&rdquo; she said. Third Way Alliance presidential hopeful Ekuru Aukot also condemned the incident, saying disruptions were the usual &ldquo;shenanigans associated with both Jubilee and CORD&rdquo;. ALSO READ: Fresh unity test as ODM, Wiper rivals face off