Woman Representative Zainab Chidzuga faces opposition in Jubilee as she seeks to defend her seat in the August elections. Ms Chidzuga, who defected from ODM, will be up against former County Public Service Board vice chairman Fatuma Tabwara, who has accused her of failing residents in her first term yesterday.&nbsp; Ms Tabwara also accused Chidzuga of sabotaging Governor Salim Mvurya&#39;s government during her tenure at the board. &quot;Mvurya and&nbsp;Chidzuga have not had a good working relationship even after they both quit ODM because she (Chidzuga) has always been out to sabotage the governor,&quot; said Tabwara. However, Chidzuga said Tabwara&#39;s entry into the race did not scare her. She said she was confident of retaining her seat. Tabwara said Chidzuga had failed to deliver on her pre-election promises and declared, &quot;It is time for change because residents want to see change.&quot; ALSO READ: Ruto slams Opposition's projects record Tabwara enjoys the governor&#39;s support while Chidzuga is said to be supporting another aspirant for governorship. &quot;Mvurya and I are going for different seats but let people choose whoever they wish for governor. The only seats that are not debatable and the only people I will campaign for are President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto,&quot; she said. Tabwara spoke in Kibaoni, Lunga Lunga, when she officially declared her interest in the seat. She also asked locals to re-elect Mvurya in the August General Election. Meanwhile, Mshenga Ruga, who is aspiring to be senator on a Jubilee Party ticket, dismissed the notion that Kwale was a NASA zone. He said residents had supported Opposition leader Raila Odinga but got nothing in return. &quot;Since independence, Kwale has remained the same despite supporting the Opposition leader. This cannot be allowed to continue,&quot; he said. Mr Mshenga called on residents to be careful and vote in people who would deliver. County Jubilee official Khatib Mtengo echoed Mshenga&#39;s sentiments, saying Kwale was no longer an opposition zone. ALSO READ: Ruto yet to decide on support for presidency This came as main coalitions NASA and Jubilee intensified their campaigns ahead of the elections. NASA is accusing Jubilee of failing to deliver on its promises. The Opposition has also castigated the Government for rampant corruption. On the other hand, Jubilee has dismissed NASA, saying it has nothing to offer besides empty promises. The ruling coalition accuses the Opposition of only being interested in sharing power, not addressing the challenges faced by Kenyans.