Striking lecturers have vowed to remain put until their grievances are addressed. UASU National Secretary General Constantine Wasonga pointed out that they have only been on strike for slightly over a month and recalled that in 2004, they downed their tools for nine months until the government gave in. &quot;Our members will not go back to work until they sign return to work formula and the 2013 collective bargaining agreement is implemented. We have just been on strike for a month and we are not in a hurry to end the strike,&#39;&#39; stated Dr. Wasonga. Speaking at Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology graduation grounds where the dons had gathered, Wasonga said negotiation talks collapsed last week and the Sh10 billion allocated to them is an embarrassment to their profession. Wasonga wondered why the government was quick to increase packages for politicians, attorney general and other civil servants and not demonstrating the same to teaching staff in public universities in the country. &quot;Negotiation talks collapsed last week and we are going countrywide to all our chapters to encourage them not to relent in their quest for better pay. Kenya lecturers must reclaim their lost glory,&#39;&#39; he added. ALSO READ: Mukumu Mission Hospital to enhance doctors' training The lecturers urged auditor general Edward Ouko to inform the government how parallel cash is being used in public varsities countrywide adding that they are not beneficiaries of the funds. Prof Sammy Kubasu, Secretary General Mmust chapter stressed that the government has neglected the plight of lecturers in public universities for decades saying they will be back to class after their demands are implemented. &quot;The government has really frustrated dons in this country. We shall not relent until we get a good deal and sign at the industrial court because we are tired of this regime,&#39;&#39;. Robinson Oduma, Chairman Mmust Chapter said, &quot;We shall not take lumpsum cash, the government should know we want a structured salary to show what each lecturer will get. The 2013 CBA expires in June and the government was aware of that for the last four years,&#39;&#39;.