American President Donald Trump has made real his disdain for former President Barack Obama&rsquo;s initiatives to control climate by appointing Scott Pruitt to head the Environmental Protection Agency. Like Trump, Pruitt has been consistent on his denials about a human-instigated climate change. He is the man the president will turn to in order to dismantle Obama&rsquo;s climate change policy that Trump has described as &ldquo;war on coal.&rdquo; Among other things, Trump has vowed to cancel the Paris Climate Change Agreement that he says was unilaterally forced on the American people by Obama as well as stop any further payments to global warming programmes. Climate change, he said, was a creation of the Chinese who did not want to see the progress of the US manufacturing sector. &ldquo;President Obama entered the United States into the Paris Climate Accords &ndash; unilaterally, and without the permission of Congress. We&rsquo;re going to rescind all the job-destroying Obama executive actions, including the Climate Action Plan. We&rsquo;re going to cancel the Paris Climate Agreement and stop all payments of US tax dollars to UN global warming programmes,&rdquo; he told a campaign rally in North Dakota last May. However, during his confirmation hearings, Pruitt made a slight break from his boss by saying climate change may not be a &ldquo;hoax&rdquo; after all. ALSO READ: A year ago, Israel, Jordan and Egypt secretly met for peace: report His main argument is that debate on the actual causes and the human factor in climate change is ongoing, making any findings inconclusive. &ldquo;Science tells us the climate is changing and human activity in some matter impacts that change. The ability to measure and pursue the degree and the extent of that impact and what to do about it are subject to continuing debate and dialogue,&rdquo; said Pruitt. Human-induced climate change has been blamed for the erratic weather patterns being witnessed around the globe. Some parts have experienced severe floods while in others, severe droughts threaten the lives of millions. Kenya is, for instance, is facing one of its worst droughts.