Denis Ogoti, who until his disappearance was a resident of Nairobi&rsquo;s Pipeline estate along Outer Ring Road, has not been seen since December 24, 2016. Ogoti, who was working at FoodPlus Limited in Lavington was last seen at work on December 23 before reports of his disappearance emerged. &ldquo;It is unlike him to do this especially over Christmas. It is worrying for someone to disappear just like that with all the killings happening in the country,&rdquo; his sister Julian says. The family reported the matter to police and visited various hospitals and city morgues but this has been in vain. In his rural home, Nyakemincha in Nyamira County, the situation is sombre and the search is on. &ldquo;I am praying and hoping that my son is well wherever he is and hope police will help us find him,&rdquo; says Ogoti&rsquo;s mother Betty Nyaboke. The sister has now resorted to use of posters with his photo, and a phone number. ALSO READ: Four-year-old still missing, four months after disappearing from Nairobi home According to Ogoti&rsquo;s employers, he was last seen at work on December 23 before reports of his disappearance emerged. &ldquo;He worked well on December 23 and we were surprised when he did not turn up the following day. We however, did not think much of it until news that he was missing got to us,&rdquo; one of his bosses told the family. Ogoti&rsquo;s family say they are concerned about recent kidnappings and disappearances being reported in the country with dumped bodies being discovered in forests. &ldquo;Days have now turned into months and Ogoti is still missing. Something is not right and the situation is getting scarier by the minute,&rdquo; says his wife, Nancy Ratemo, who has since relocated to Nakuru. Ogoti&rsquo;s family reported the matter to Embakasi Police Station under OB 79/27/1/17. However, nothing much has come from the police apart from the assurance that they are investigating the matter. &ldquo;It is very stressful because we cannot get any information about what happened to him,&rdquo; says Julian. ALSO READ: 'Come back home son,' Nakuru mother pleads Nancy says she is equally gutted by her husband&rsquo;s disappearance and urged police to help her find the love of her life. When asked why she immediately relocated to her parents when she came back to their Pipeline house after a previous disagreement that saw her go to her parents, Nancy says that after waiting for her husband for some days and he did not come, she took a few household goods and left. &ldquo;Yes we had a quarrel and I left, but when I came back on December 26, he was nowhere to be seen. With the month end approaching and I did not have money to pay the rent, I left for Nakuru,&rdquo; she says.