The Government has doubled relief food rations to feed three million people, up from an initial 1.3 million Kenyans, State House has said. Spokesperson Manoah Esipisu said the Government has also enhanced water trucking across the country, especially in the 23 arid and semi-arid counties that have adversely been affected by drought. &quot;We are tackling the drought with all efforts available to us, especially under the authority of the National Disaster Response that the President has committed to in terms of how we address the situation,&quot; said Mr Esipisu. He was speaking yesterday at the Kakamega State Lodge where he was holding his weekly Press briefing. He disclosed that the livestock off-take has also been enhanced in all 23 arid and semi-arid counties. &quot;We are buying cattle as well as goats and sheep. Since the body conditions of most of them is not good, the Government is slaughtering and giving locals for consumption, and for them to store in traditional ways as dried meat. We are also supplying this meat to schools in those areas,&quot; he said. ALSO READ: To send Jubilee home, NASA must go for right candidate The State House spokesperson also assured that development partners such as the Kenya Red Cross and United Nations agencies had continued to support the Government in targeting specific vulnerable groups such as the elderly, women and children under the age of five. &quot;These are being provided with fortified foods. Lactating mothers are also getting fortified foods, including vitamins and energy complements,&quot; said Esipisu. On security matters, he said the Inspector General of Police&#39;s reports indicate there have been no insecurity incidents in Baringo in the last two days. &quot;Our security agents remain vigilant to deal with whatever situation that may arise,&quot; he said. The State House spokesperson, who has been in Kakamega and Vihiga counties for the past three days to inspect the progress of the Digital Literacy Programme, also discussed development projects implemented by the Jubilee regime in the Western region. Additionally, Esipisu said the Jubilee administration ensured electricity connectivity had been accelerated. ALSO READ: Jubilee declares advertising blackout on local media