Police in Machakos have made breakthroughs in the many murder cases that have been reported in the county. County Commissioner Matilda Sakwa said the officers have performed above board in unraveling the killings that have involved both ordinary and prominent personalities.&nbsp; &quot;There has been good progress in tacking and arresting dozens of suspects in connection with the killings with several cases having been dealt with conclusively,&quot; Sakwa said. In one of the attacks, a 20-man gang killed six night guards at Mitamboni market in Kathiani sub-county in August last year. The men were armed with crude weapons. Those killed were identified as Raphael Nzioki, 30, Daniel Kitai, 41, Peter Mutuku, 49, Sammy Munyao, 70 and Sammy Makenzi, 75. Two weeks after the killings, Ms Sakwa and area governor Alfred Mutua, at a joint press briefing, announced two suspects had been arrested in connection with the killings. ALSO READ: Bandits kill man in Kerio Valley ahead of Deputy President's tour And Thursday, the county commissioner said the suspects have since been charged in court. In December 2015, University of Nairobi lecturer, Stephen Nzuve&#39;s home in Tala was attacked and he was shot dead. The assailants stole his laptop and mobile phones. A month later, three suspects were arrested in Nairobi&#39;s Huruma estate and the laptop and phones recovered. Former Kangundo DCIO Wycliffe Sifuna said the suspects were charged with murder. Gunmen attacked In August last year, gunmen attacked the home of Kangundo Kenya National Union of Teachers treasurer, Meshack Mutisya, and shot him three times in the chest. Mutisya later died at Kenyatta National Hospital. His killers are still at large. Last month, a businessman, Jones Wambua, was brutally murdered at Kwa Mwaura shopping centre, along Tala-Donyo Sabuk road. His wife was left with serious injuries. Thursday, Kangundo DCIO David Wafula said three suspects were arrested in connection with the killing in Thika town, Nairobi and Donyo Sabuk. Kangundo OCPD Njeri Mbugua said, the suspects are among five prisoners who escaped from a police lorry that was ferrying remandees form the Machakos GK Prison to Kangundo Law Courts on Tuesday. ALSO READ: Bodies of four men found abandoned in Kikuyu Meanwhile, detectives in Kangundo say they have obtained CCTV footage that will help them arrest a suspect said to have killed a 17-year-old man before stealing his motorbike in December last year. Area DCIO David Wafula said the suspect hired the victim, Martin Nzau, at a pump station in Nguluni, Matungulu sub-county before the rider was brutally killed and his motorbike snatched. Wafula said experts have been studying the footage of the night of the attack and is positive it will help them track the killer. The police believe the man captured on the CCTV camera killed the rider and have urged the public to volunteer information that may lead to his arrest.