Tigania East MP Mpuru Aburi amazed a crowd at the Kiigene home of Senator Kiraitu Murungi at the weekend when he brought a renowned Meru witchdoctor to endorse the latter&rsquo;s gubernatorial bid. Introducing the witchdoctor at a meeting of South Imenti leaders, the MP said the witchdoctor would use his charms to protect and defend the votes of the aspiring Meru governor. Mr Aburi introduced James Mugambi Barongo as a &ldquo;powerful witchdoctor&rdquo; who can cast spells on those opposing the senator&rsquo;s gubernatorial bid. But the senator and his designated running mate, Mr Titus Ntuchiu, immediately disowned the witchdoctor. Murungi termed the action a prank, saying no serious man could stand before a crowd and confess to being a witchdoctor. &ldquo;Aburi does not speak for our ticket and we do not approve of every sideshow he brings to our meetings,&rdquo; said Ntuchiu. ALSO READ: Why Raila&rsquo;s bag of tricks will backfire this season of deceit Barongo was among three elders from Tigania. A second elder, the Nairobi chairman of business people from Nyambene, Mr Henry Nkure, spoke at the meeting. The wichdoctor claimed that the area was against the incumbent, Mr Peter Munya, and supported Murungi&rsquo;s candidature. &ldquo;His other name is Kaana ka Njoka. If you don&rsquo;t support Kiraitu Murungi and he points at you, you are no more. Every one knows him and we are out to prove to you that in Tigania we are not supporting Munya,&rdquo; said Aburi. The MP called upon the people of Imenti not to be deceived that the Nyambene region does not support Murungi, adding that &ldquo;this is a spiritual war that would shame Munya&rdquo;. The witchdoctor introducedhimself, stating that he was a &ldquo;kaana ka njoka&rdquo; (snakelet), a Meru euphemism for witchdoctor. &ldquo;When you see my pockets bulging, it is not money but very powerful charms that I carry always,&rdquo; said Barongo. He added that he was a strong supporter of the Tigania East MP and that he had been convinced to be part of his team to ensure that Murungi wins the governor&rsquo;s seat. ALSO READ: Are Kenyans saddled with leadership disconnect? &ldquo;I am equipped with poison. When you get close to Mpuru, I can bite you and you cannot survive. Mpuru has convinced me to play as a defender in Kiraitu&rsquo;s bid and I can assure you whoever plays with him, I will spit on him and he will not survive,&rdquo; he said. The meeting was also attended by Igembe South MP Mithika Linturi and South Imenti aspirants Shadrack Mwiti, Gideon Kimathi, and Mwiti Kathara. The senator promised to replicate the success of his South Imenti CDF during his tenure to benefit Meru county if elected governor. &ldquo;We shall also start a county youth service and allocate it Sh500 million annually to enable jobless youth to earn Sh300 daily for jobs such as clearing road reserves, laying water pipelines, and&nbsp; planting trees on communal land,&rdquo; said Murungi. The Elections Act, 2011 Section 65 A and C, outlaws any form of undue influence on the voter. It states that a person who directly or indirectly inflicts or threatens to inflict injury, damage, harm, or loss on or against a person so as to induce or compel that person to support a particular candidate or political party or in order to induce or compel that person to vote in a particular way or refrain from voting commits an offence and is liable, on conviction, to a fine not exceeding Sh1 million or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both. ALSO READ: Scandal of 2,238 strangers at NYS