Valentine&rsquo;s is finally behind us and many men must be breathing a sigh of relief. A number of people remarked that this year&rsquo;s Valentine&rsquo;s lacked a certain amount of exuberance, and I noticed that the city was not awash with the standard d&eacute;cor of red flowers and red gear. Someone hazarded a guess and said perhaps the challenging economic times are putting a stretch on the love wallets of Kenyans. Based on the funny memes that were floating around, it is clear that men have not fallen in love with this idea many years after it found its way here from the Western world. Kenyan men especially have thrown all manner of excuses at the problem of Valentine&rsquo;s but it seems women have embraced it hook, line and sinker. My view is that men should embrace this day. It is the optimum one-day investment that can generate 365 days of benefits. So for next year, here are a few things to remember. No stone unturned One of the reasons many men get frustrated with Valentine&rsquo;s is because it forces them to hone in and zero in on one woman. What they do not realise is they can actually choose more than one woman for Valentine&rsquo;s investment &ndash; all one has to do is decide what kind of shares and investment that you want to make. For instance, if you have a wife then you must leave no stone unturned to make her happy on Valentine&rsquo;s Day because you are pretty much stuck with her till you die. If you have some side love interests, you can share some tokens depending on what benefits they give you presently or the benefits you expect to reap going forward: If they are just eye candy for showing off to the boys then do not bother investing in anything. ALSO READ: The Siren: Dear Mama na Baba Abby If you have some semblance of affection for the side dish and if she is good at providing certain pleasure skills you must by all means send something especially if you plan on having a pleasurable year. The moral of the story is do not spread yourself thin, focus only on the women who will saidia your life in the next one year in one way or the other. Many men spread themselves too thin on Valentine&rsquo;s hence losing out the opportunity to gain maximum returns. For next year, if you want to score on Valentine&rsquo;s ensure you do something grand. Something grand does not mean sending a large bouquet of withering red roses or chocolate. It means doing things like marriage proposals, buying that massive car, taking her on that expensive holiday. Such grand gesture yield serious benefits. Most sins later in the year will be forgiven at the altar of memories of Valentine&rsquo;s &mdash; and yes there can be peace in your lifetime if you make the right Valentine&rsquo;s choices. A man might come home late most of the year, but many women will overlook these sins when they recall the massive car that he delivered that made her the envy of friends and foe. So men, by all means plan for the grand gestures. In the same token, Valentine&rsquo;s is not the day to do anything foolish like being caught bedding your wife&rsquo;s best friend or let us just say being caught in bed with anyone besides your designated partner. Val&rsquo;s is not the day to go hanging out with boys or to imagine that you need to watch the Champions League. Most men will confess that women have huge memories and have the capacity to remember and recite all sins their men have committed. Other sins committed any other time of the year are easy to deal with but the ones that happen on Valentine&rsquo;s remain etched in women&rsquo;s minds for eternity. Men will tell you that women also have the knack of using past sins as missiles in verbal combat with impunity. It is not too much to ask for men to suck it up for one day in the full knowledge that the Promised Land awaits them the rest of the year. ALSO READ: Man accused of siring child with his biological daughter in Bungoma Finally, for next year, men should not imagine that forgetting Valentine&rsquo;s is an option. Valentine&rsquo;s should actually be declared a national holiday because at the end of the day women&rsquo;s happiness is critical to nation building. So for men set reminders on your phone, but whatever you do, do not forget Valentine&rsquo;s Day.