Jubilee party leaders in Western launched a membership recruitment drive and accused the Opposition of engaging in backbiting politics. The party&#39;s key point-men in Western CS Eugene Wamalwa and Bungoma Governor Kenneth Lusaka attributed the difficulties in popularising Jubilee Party in the region to dirty politics and propaganda from their opponents. Speaking in Webuye during a meeting of Jubilee leaders and aspirants, Wamalwa said the Opposition was busy tainting the image of the government by spreading false propaganda and portraying them as failures. Wamalwa said the current regime had initiated many projects in Bungoma County and beyond. He cautioned the Opposition against spreading lies for political mileage. &quot;The Opposition through National Super Alliance (NASA) should stop lying to the public that Jubilee has failed and has no chance in western. They should account for what they did when they were part of the coalition government,&quot; said Wamalwa. Lusaka cited harassment of their members in public forums and propaganda as some of the hurdles their new outfit is currently facing in western. ALSO READ: Jubilee versus NASA, who has the numbers? &quot;Harassment of our members by political goons and propaganda that Opposition cannot substantiate are some of the challenges we are facing in the region. Politicians should be tolerant and be ready to listen to everyone&#39;s opinion,&#39;&#39; said Lusaka. The two leaders cited construction of roads in Bungoma and Trans Nzoia counties and the reopening of Rai Paper Mills (formerly Pan Paper) were a clear indication that the Jubilee administration was keen on reviving stalled industries and uplifting the lives of locals. Wamalwa further called on Jubilee leaders and members to effectively sell the party&#39;s manifesto in order to gain more support to defeat the Opposition in the coming elections. &quot;Having more numbers through an elaborate recruitment drive will help us gain more popularity and thus counter the challenge posed by NASA in the region,&#39;&#39; noted Wamalwa. Governor Lusaka cautioned Jubilee members against fighting among themselves&nbsp;as this will give the opposition an upper hand if they are not united&nbsp;they will not be united. Present were MPs Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East), Dan Wanyama (Webuye West), Bungoma Woman Representative Reginalda Wanyonyi, Boniface Otsiula (Bumula), John Waluke (Sirisia) and a number of MCAs. ALSO READ: Jubilee demands action over defacing of Lugari office