&nbsp; Police in Bomet have arrested a Form three student in Bomet East for allegedly killing his classmate with a blunt object. &nbsp; The suspect was arrested at Kipkurion Secondary School after his fellow student succumbed to the injuries sustained at Tenwek Mission Hospital where he was receiving treatment. The two are said to have differed during play time and an argument ensued and the deceased was hit with a blunt object at the back of his head. Students who witnessed the incident at Kipkurion Secondary School playground said it was a normal argue over a football game before it degenerated into personal attack and a fist fights. ALSO READ: Salat and Lesan warming up for another round of fight in Bomet Confirming the incident, Bomet OCPD Samson Rukunga said the parents of the deceased reported the matter to police forcing them to take action. &quot;We received the report from the parents of the deceased and we immediately moved into action and arrested the student who hit him to help in our investigation,&quot; Rukunga told the press in his office. He said detectives have taken up the matter and are on ground top collect more information on the incident to build a case against the suspect. Rukunga said the suspect who is current in custody is out on bond for an assault incident. &quot;The suspect seems to be a notorious character and we are going to prefer a murder case against him. We have searched and discovered that he has another case that is pending,&quot; said the police officer. He said the student is said to have assaulted a student at Kipyosit Secondary School where he was before moving to Kipkurion Secondary in Bomet East. The school administration of the latest incident, the OCPD said, did not report the matter when it happened and instead rushed the victim to Longisa County Referral Hospital where he was referred to Tenwek mission hospital for further treatment when his condition worsened. The body of the deceased is lying at Tenwek hospital&#39;s morgue awaiting post mortem and subsequent release to the family for burial. ALSO READ: Why NASA got it wrong in Bomet