Kanu has called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene over the escalating insecurity in the North Rift. Speaking yesterday during the launch of former Inspector General of Police David Kimaiyo&rsquo;s senatorial bid on a Kanu ticket, party chairman Gideon Moi asked the President to provide a lasting solution to the menace. He warned that the killings in Elgeyo Marakwet, Baringo and Pokot counties are likely to spiral out of control if not addressed. &ldquo;If the Government does not take decisive action, the vice might spiral into something uncontrollable,&rdquo; he said. Gideon challenged the Jubilee administration to employ the same enthusiasm they had during the mass voter registration campaign to address insecurity in the region. &ldquo;The people want peace, food, good roads, employment and this can be achieved when Kenyatta takes the initiative to visit the volatile regions as the commander-in-chief and unite all the warring communities,&rdquo; he said. He reiterated that he never made a mistake during the burial of Mark Too when he called on the President to personally seek votes from residents ahead of August polls. ALSO READ: Kanu to support Ford Kenya candidates for governorship in two counties Condemned &ldquo;There are people who think they have voters cards of the Rift Valley region in their pockets forgetting that it is the public to decide on who to vote for in August,&rdquo; he added. He took a swipe at those expressing interest for the 2022 presidency saying they should serve the interests of the locals first. &ldquo;2022 politics is still far, what is required is service to the electorate,&rdquo; he said. Gideon drummed up support for Mr Kimaiyo&rsquo;s senatorial bid saying he is equal to the task and will offer a solution to the insecurity. Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto took a swipe at the Jubilee administration for failing to combat insecurity in the region. He observed that the solution to the country&rsquo;s problems lies in development. Ruto condemned the shoot-to-kill order issued by Deputy President William Ruto against cattle rustlers saying devolving resources to the grassroots will end the menace. &ldquo;Some leaders have been visiting the area but instead of providing comprehensive solutions such as building schools and utilising the funds set aside for National Youth Service that continues to be embezzled, they are busy making it inhabitable due to their divisive sentiments,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: Blow to Jubilee as leaders decamp to Kanu The Governor said he is yet to make up his mind on who he will support in the presidential polls but will join a team dedicated at addressing problems of citizens. &ldquo;I will not vote for greedy people and in that case, I am still weighing on who to support for presidency, as of now I will work with Senator Moi and like minds,&rdquo; he added. Consultations Kanu Secretary General Nick Salat said the insecurity is worsening. &ldquo;We saw what happened in Baringo during DP Ruto&rsquo;s visit. We lost an assistant chief and if the government does not intervene, we will lag behind economically. The visit by government officials should take place before the August polls,&rdquo; he noted. West Pokot Senator John Lonyangapuo lashed out at the government for failing to involve all leaders in the region in the search for peace. &ldquo;Why were we not involved in the DP&rsquo;s visit to Kerio Valley, he armed the police reservists from one community and left the rest,&rdquo; he claimed. Nominated Senator Zipporah Kittony regretted that residents continue being killed by criminals&nbsp; more than 50 years after independence. ALSO READ: Kanu to support Ford Kenya candidates &ldquo;How can they embark on voter campaigns yet the same people who are expected to vote in August are suffering?&rdquo; she posed. Ms Kittony assured aspirants seeking elective on Kanu ticket of free and fair&nbsp; nominations. Emuria Dikiir MP Johana Ngeno cautioned Kenyatta against delegating authority to what he termed as political brokers in resolving the run away insecurity. Kimaiyo said peace efforts are thwarted by leaders with selfish interests and promised to restore calm in the region. &ldquo;I will not be driven by character assassination or selfish interest because we have to end the suffering of families who constantly bury their kin due to insecurity.&rdquo;