The independence party, Kanu, has vowed to work with the Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto-led Chama Cha Mashinani (CCM) party to field candidates in both South and North Rift in a bid to topple DP William Ruto in the region. Kanu chairman and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi and Governor Ruto were speaking at the home of Narok West MP Patrick Ntutu at Olopirik farm in Narok West. During the meeting, Mr Ntutu, who has ditched Jubilee Party, led former influential Maa politician William ole Ntimama&rsquo;s daughter Lydia and about 10 MCAs to CCM. The leaders faulted the Jubilee administration for impoverishing the Rift Valley by failing to provide development-oriented leadership. &ldquo;We, as Kanu, are working with CCM to revolutionise Rift Valley,&rdquo; said Gideon. He warned Jubilee against plotting to steal votes as witnessed in the Kericho by-election where Kanu candidate Paul Sang lost to Jubilee&rsquo;s Aaron Cheruiyot in a hotly contested race. &ldquo;I want to tell you to take care of your vote so that they (Jubilee) don&rsquo;t steal it. They stole from us in Kericho and we do not want the same to happen here in Narok,&rdquo; warned Gideon. ALSO READ: DP Ruto makes friends and foes with his hard-ball politics The senator also took the opportunity to drum up support for Ntutu for governorship, saying he had what it takes to deliver development. His sentiments were echoed by West Pokot Senator John Lonyangapuo, Rongai legislator Raymond Moi, and Kanu&rsquo;s Secretary General Nick Salat, who said it was high time the two parties teamed up to deliver quality leadership. Ntutu, who will face off with Jubilee&rsquo;s Samuel Tunai, the incumbent and former ICT PS Joseph Tiampati, said he was upset by the level of corruption and under-development meted upon the Narok electorate by the current leadership. He promised to give MCAs Ward Development Funds to be able to spur development in their respective areas of jurisdiction. The Narok leader also lashed out at Deputy President William Ruto, accusing him of failing to curb corruption and trying to dictate to the community whom to vote for in the August&nbsp; elections. Emurua Dikirr MP Johana Ng&rsquo;eno also hit out at DP Ruto, whom he accused of meddling in Narok politics and dared him for a supremacy duel among the Kipsigis in Narok. ALSO READ: The incredible rise of DP William Ruto