Nairobi governorship candidate Mike Sonko (kneeling left) and his running mate Polycap Igathe during a meeting with Kisii leaders at Ufungamano House. [Edward Kiplimo, Standard] Nairobi Jubilee governorship candidate Mike Sonko has promised the Abagusii community traders living in Nairobi better markets and county positions if elected as governor in the coming elections. Speaking at a meeting with Abagusii leaders and professionals, Sonko said most of the traders who rely on vegetables and sugarcane lacked decent markets where they can sell their goods. &ldquo;I understand that trade is a major income-generating activity among the Abagusii who, however, face market challenges. The markets in Nairobi are dirty and inaccessible, and I plan to change this once I am voted in,&rdquo; he said. He added, &ldquo;I will reserve one position in the executive team, one county director&rsquo;s post and other opportunities for the Abagusi community.&rdquo; Sonko endorsed ALSO READ: Kamba elders endorse Sonko The elders led by Pius Mogusu and Nyakundi Barimo endorsed the election of the senator, emphasising on his generosity to the people and lack of discrimination. The group also prayed for Sonko and his running mate Polycarp Igathe and wished them well in the upcoming elections. Sonko recalled past moments with Opposition leader Raila Odinga&rsquo;s family, which he said marked the beginning of his relations with the Abagusi community. &ldquo;The late Fidel Odinga was my close friend, may his soul rest in peace,&rdquo; Sonko told the crowd. &ldquo;I remember one time when we visited the family courtesy of Fidel and had a chat with Raila. During our conversation, I mentioned to him my intentions to contest as a Member of Parliament for Makadara,&rdquo; he continued. Sonko said Raila discouraged him from contesting the position and instead asked him to start as a councillor. Personal belief &ldquo;But I believed in myself, just like the people believe in me. I was contesting against Reuben Ndolo and I had overwhelming support from Makadara people, specifically an area known as Kisii village,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: Kamba elders endorse Sonko He said that was the beginning of his relations with the Abagusii. Sonko also said he would ensure cholera cases would never again occur in Nairobi. &ldquo;Water and sanitation is a major problem in Nairobi, which has led to the outbreak of cholera in the county,&rdquo; he said. He accused Governor Kidero of sacking seven people from the community who were serving in his administration. &ldquo;Governor Kidero sacked Nyambane, who has now been given a job by the President. He also sacked others,&rdquo; he claimed. [email&#160;protected]