The Jubilee administration has sidelined pastoralist regions, opposition chief Raila Odinga has claimed. The National Super Alliance (NASA) presidential candidate said President Uhuru Kenyatta&#39;s administration had bailed out coffee, tea, and miraa farmers but had not done the same for herders. &quot;In Mount Kenya region the Government has paid off coffee and tea loans and recently Sh1 billion was given to miraa farmers to boost their cash crops. What about Samburu people?&quot; Raila asked. It is for this reason, the ODM leader told Samburu residents, that all of them, including the sick, should vote for him. Speaking at Yare grounds in Samburu County, Raila said the sick should be transported to polling stations to vote in the leaders they want. The former prime minister expressed confidence that he would clinch 99 per cent of the votes cast in Samburu. In the 2013 General Election, he got 58 per cent. ALSO READ: Change of poll date &lsquo;will not happen&rsquo; &quot;I know Samburu people are tired of this government and even those admitted in hospitals should be ferried to polling stations using boda bodas to kick out the Uhuru and (Deputy President William) Ruto government,&quot; he said. He further urged Samburu residents to vote the NASA leadership, saying they would be treated equally in terms of development, security, and distribution of resources in their region. Raila&#39;s running mate Kalonzo Musyoka asked the Samburu to retaliate against the loss of their livestock by not voting for any candidate vying on a Jubilee ticket. He accused Samburu leaders of allowing themselves to be used &#39;like puppets&#39; by the Government that they had forgotten to fight for their people. Mr Kalonzo&#39;s sentiments were echoed by Kajiado Central MP Elijah Memusi, who said Samburu had been sidelined by the Government. Samburu leaders aligned to NASA had earlier accused Jubilee politicians in the county of booking all public fields so that NASA would not hold its rally in Samburu. Efforts to have NASA hold its rally at Kenyatta Stadium, Allamano Stadium, and open air market fields failed as it was said that they had all been booked for other events. ALSO READ: Change of poll date &lsquo;will not happen&rsquo; Joseph Leng&#39;urani, an organising committee member, said it was later learnt that no field had been booked for any political event. NASA had to hold its rally at Yare grounds, 10 kilometres from Maralal town. Residents braved the tough terrain to attend the meeting. [email&#160;protected]