A mother lost her newborn twins in Bungoma after her father-in-law denied her entry to his homestead on claims that the infants were a bad omen. The incident happened on&nbsp;Saturday at Wekelekha village in Kanduyi constituency as the woman took refuge in a cold maize plantation. Lillian Wanyonyi said she delivered the babies at a nearby dispensary at about 7am and was discharged about three hours later. While returning to her matrimonial home, her father-in-law allegedly denied them entry, saying the twins could not be allowed into his homestead before some rituals were performed. Mrs Wanyonyi said the twins died about two hours later. &quot;I had a safe delivery on Saturday. However, when I was returning home, I met my father-in-law at the gate who said twins were not allowed in his home,&quot; she said. ALSO READ: NASA parties&rsquo; rivalry worsens over county seats Charles Wafula, her husband, said he had lived happily with his wife and they were looking forward to the delivery. He said he was surprised when his father denied them entry into the homestead. Wafula said as he, only to be informed two hours later that the twins had died. Their father, Joseph Nyongesa, maintained twins could not be allowed in the homestead unless certain rituals were conducted. Mr Nyongesa said his son was still living in his homestead and bringing home twins home meant a special ritual had&nbsp;to be performed first. &quot;I told them to wait as we do not allow twins to come home before certain rituals,&quot; he said. The police were called in who took the bodies to Bungoma County Hospital mortuary. ALSO READ: IEBC slaps Lusaka with steep fine over poll violence &quot;We are finalising investigations and then make an official report. We will present it to our seniors who will tell us who to take to court and the appropriate charges to make,&quot; said a police officer. Area OCPD David Kirui said he was still waiting for information from officers dispatched to the scene before commenting on the matter. Meanwhile, Butula MP Michael Onyura and his Teso South counterpart Mary Emaase have urged senior security officers in the region to stay vigilant during this campaign season. Mr Onyura said there was need for the county to be kept safe and people&#39;s property protected following intelligence information that Busia was likely to experience election violence. &quot;Although Busia has been put on the security radar as one of the counties likely to have violence, we have to prove security agencies wrong by maintaining peace,&quot; said Onyura. Emaase complained that supporters of her opponents had started removing her posters and urged the police to arrest those involved. The legislators, who were speaking at different venues at the weekend, further called on the police and the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to arrest politicians using youths to cause violence and heckle rivals in rallies. ALSO READ: Separated twins finally leave hospital after nearly 3 years DEADLY GANGS Their remarks come a few days after Busia County Commissioner Michael Tialal revealed that there were deadly gangs that politicians were using to advance their selfish interests. Some of the gangs Mr&nbsp;Tialal said were on the security radar include Bulanda Boys, Marachi Republican Council and Baghdad Stars. And speaking at a news conference, the ODM Youth League Chairman James Anyango urged youth to embrace peace. &nbsp;