Seven people Thursday died and 30 others were seriously injured in a road accident along the Nakuru-Eldoret highway. The morning&nbsp;crash&nbsp;at Equator involved a bus that was travelling from Mombasa to Kakamega and a truck transporting construction materials from Eldoret. The dead, all passengers in the bus, were three adults and four children, according to Koibatek OCPD Agnes Kamau. The bus, which left Mombasa on Wednesday at around 3pm, was carrying 44 passengers. Ms Kamau said those injured in the 5.30am accident were admitted to Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital (MTRH) in Eldoret and Mercy Mission Hospital in Eldama Ravine. The bus was said to have rammed the truck as the driver tried to overtake it. The OCPD said it was raining at the time. Police officers and rescuers removed the bodies, some of which were trapped in the wreckage of the bus. Others were trapped under the wheels of the trailer. ALSO READ: Two die on the spot in Kisii road accident The accident caused a traffic snarl-up on the highway, prompting the police to temporarily close it and direct motorists to use the old Nakuru-Eldoret road. Vincent Mwaka, a survivor, said he was speaking to his wife, who was sitting besides him, when he heard a loud bang. He lost two children aged 14 and 10 in the accident. His wife was injured and is admitted to Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital.&nbsp;Mwaka is nursing head injuries. &quot;The journey was smooth. My wife and I talked as we watched over our children, who were asleep,&quot; said Mwaka with tears in his eyes. He said the vehicle left Mombasa on Wednesday afternoon.&nbsp; Constance Waka, another survivor, lost her two nieces. ALSO READ: St Augustine principal, 4 others charged with murder of school pupil Ms Waka said the bus had travelled well from Mombasa but on reaching Nakuru, it began speeding. Passengers complained but the driver did not heed their warning, she claimed. The mother-of-two received first aid at the scene for cuts on the head, arms, and legs. Traffic rules &quot;It is hard to come to terms with the loss of my two nieces. They had requested me to take them to their grandmother for the holiday,&quot; she said. Bryan Khalwale, another survivor, said the driver of the&nbsp; bus kept overtaking other vehicles along the way. He added that there was a lot of traffic. &quot;Our journey was not smooth. The driver kept overtaking other vehicles,&quot; said Mr Khalwale. &quot;Drivers should observe traffic rules to avoid accidents and death,&quot; said Ms Kamau. ALSO READ: How NTSA plans to deal with speeding motorists Twenty-one accident victims were admitted to MTRH. &quot;We have received 21 patients with varying degrees of injuries. Some have been attended to at the emergency department and taken to theatre. Most of them require blood. We are glad the regional blood transfusion centre had sufficient stocks to assist them and none has died here. Others are being monitored and may not need to go to the theatre,&quot; said the MTRH chief executive officer, Dr Wilson Aruasa. Elsewhere, three people died in a road accident at Menyikwa market along the Kisii-Kilgoris road. The accident involved a pick-up, a small car, a matatu, and a motorcycle. Two women and a man died on the spot after the vehicles collided. &quot;We suspect one of the vehicles went out of control and rammed another,&quot; said Kisii County Police Commander Hassan Abdi. The injured were rushed to the Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital but were turned away due to the ongoing nurses&#39; strike. They were taken to private hospitals. ALSO READ: Research: These medicines can walk you into road accidents Dr Hezron Manduku, the director of Hema Hospital, said 12 accident victims had been admitted. Mercy Kahenda,Mercy Kulei and Michael Ollinga [email&#160;protected]