Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama has been picked to lead the National Super Alliance campaign in Nairobi. Muthama said the NASA administration has asked him to ensure that the Opposition captures all the elective seats in the city. &ldquo;I have been charged with overseeing the Nairobi campaigns and I want to assure voters that being an enemy of the Jubilee administration, I will make sure no vote is lost come August 8,&rdquo; said Muthama. He was speaking at a rally at the City Stadium, where he led Governor Evans Kidero and his deputy, Jonathan Mueke, to a meeting with members from the Kamba community. Speaking mostly in Kikamba, he emphasised that under his leadership, he would ensure that Wiper secured three parliamentary seats and 20 MCA slots in three constituencies namely, Lang&rsquo;ata, Kamukunji, and Embakasi South. Kalonzo factor The senator also sought to dispel claims that he had fallen out with former Wiper leader and NASA presidential running mate Kalonzo Musyoka, terming it propaganda from Jubilee. ALSO READ: Yes, we must end the cynicism surrounding party manifestos He endorsed Kalonzo for the presidential race in 2022 and Mueke for the Nairobi governorship contest. &ldquo;There is no way I can betray Kalonzo. We are inseparable and the day he leaves NASA we will leave together,&rdquo; he said. Adding, &ldquo;Mimi sio mjinga niupasue ukuta ambao ulinichukua miaka kujenga...&rdquo; (&ldquo;I am not stupid to bring down the wall that I have spent years building&rdquo;). He took issue with President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy, William Ruto, for trying to create a rift between him and Kalonzo and advised them to focus on their own campaign. Kidero took a jab at Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko, saying Jubilee was only using him to secure the governor&rsquo;s seat and later propel his running mate to the position. Sonko woes He accused Sonko of being a &lsquo;coward who was hiding under the bed&rsquo; and failing to show up at a gubernatorial debate held last week and sending his deputy instead. ALSO READ: Yes, we must end the cynicism surrounding party manifestos Sonko failed to show up for a debate organised by Jeff Koinange and another one by the Kenya Alliance of Residents Associations. &ldquo;Jubilee are just using him to clinch Nairobi. After they win, they will use cases against him and make Polycarp Igathe the governor,&rdquo; said Kidero. Kidero also drummed up support for his deputy, saying that he was being groomed to take over as governor in 2022. He urged the Kamba community to be careful not to elect a leader who was a &lsquo;project&rsquo; of the government and could, therefore, not foster development in the city.