Deputy President William Ruto is expected in Gusii three weeks after President Uhuru Kenyatta campaigned in the region. The Deputy President&#39;s campaign tour comes at a time when a storm is blowing over the IDPs compensation funds issued by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The President issued cheques for IDPS in Nyamira and Kisii worthy Sh 470 million and Sh380 million respectively. The move led to several demonstration in Kisii and Nyamira on allegations that fake names had been inserted in the list. The government through the respective County Commissioner later put into the exercise until proper vetting had been done. Nyamira County Commissioner Mr Isiah Nakoru has already confirmed the DP&#39;s campaign tour. ALSO READ: The law and morality of politics in Kenya Mr Nakoru said that the Deputy will begin the Jubilee in Ekerenyo Nyamira County and later on move to Manga Stadium in Kitutu Masaba. Later the Deputy President will hold campaigns in Nyaribari Chache and Bibasi Counstituencies in Kisii County. Nyamira County Jubilee Governor aspirant Walter Nyambati aslo confirmed that Ruto will be campaigning in the region. &quot;We are confident that Jubilee will garner majority votes and seats in Gusii. The current regime in Nyamira County has failed,&quot; said Nyambati. The region is perceived to be a NASA stronghold. Kisii County has approximately 450,000 registered voters and Nyamira 220,358. In the 2013 election, Uhuru garnered 95,596 votes in Kisii against NASA leader Raila Odinga&rsquo;s 236,831. In Nyamira, the President got 54,071 votes, while Raila garnered 121,590. ALSO READ: The law and morality of politics in Kenya Ruto&#39;s Jubilee campaign tour comes at a time when there are mixed reaction over the manner in which the party&#39;s Presidential campaigns are being held in the region. On Monday former Kisii Mayor Sam Nyangeso warned that the campaigns were not being carried out in a proper manner. &quot;We want to ensure that President Uhuru wins majority votes in the region. We cannot achieve this with the smearing wrangles,&quot; said Mr Nyangeso.