&nbsp; Moi University student Nickson Syengo Mutemi, 20, at the Eldoret Law Court when he was sentenced to eight years in prison for manslaughter yesterday. [Peter Ochieng, Standard] A Moi University student has been sentenced to eight years in prison for killing his colleague following an argument over a girlfriend. Dickson Syengo Mutemi, a first year student at Moi University&rsquo;s town campus, was found guilty of manslaughter by Eldoret Chief Magistrate Charles Obulutsa. Syengo killed Stephen Wairimu Mututho, a Fourth Year student, on March 21, 2016 at Pioneer Private Hostels in Eldoret town. The court ruled that as the accused stabbed Mututho eight times, he will serve a year for every stabbing. The two are said to have quarreled over Faith Bwire, with both claiming she was their girlfriend. ALSO READ: Mystery over five bodies discovered on railway line in Kibera According to Bwire, the accused was with her in her room when Mututho and his friend Dennis Migot came and found them in a compromising position. &ldquo;I was with the accused at 9pm in my room and at around 9.30pm Stephen and Dennis came into the room. Stephen was drunk but I am not sure if Dennis was drunk or sober. He (the deceased) abused us and Syengo accosted him and a fight ensued. We tried to separate the two in vain,&rdquo; she said. Syengo is reported to have left the room after the fight and returned with a knife which he used to stab the deceased eight times in the chest and abdomen. He succumbed to the injuries on the way to hospital. In mitigation, the accused said he acted in self-defence after the deceased and another student abused and punched him on the face. Syengo read a three-page document he had prepared to plead for a non-custodial sentence. &ldquo;I am keen to acquire education, mould my life and become independent to help my ailing single mother,&rdquo; he said. The magistrate noted that students are being killed while others kill because of love. &ldquo;No matter the pleading about your future, Stephen&rsquo;s future is no more... you will serve eight years in prison, one year for every stabbing,&rdquo; ruled Obulutsa.&nbsp; ALSO READ: Families raise alarm as extra judicial killings soar in the city