President Uhuru Kenyatta has told the National Super Alliance (NASA) presidential running mate Kalonzo Musyoka to join Jubilee Party in preparation for 2022. Speaking during day two tour of the Lower Eastern, the President said Kalonzo&rsquo;s future in the Opposition was uncertain. &ldquo;I urge my brother Kalonzo Musyoka not to be misled by Raila Odinga. Come and work with us. When I leave office, you can work with William Ruto and move this country forward,&rdquo; he said. Ruto said he believes that Kalonzo would not lead his people to a &ldquo;fake Canaan.&rdquo; &ldquo;My brother Kalonzo is a Christian who I am sure will not allow his people to be led to a fake Canaan that chang&rsquo;aa and busaa is legalised. The Canaan we know in the Bible is the one that has honey and milk.&rdquo; The NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga has told his supporters that he&rsquo;s the right candidate to take them to Canaan. Saturday, Jubilee leaders told Eastern voters to reject NASA as they have no plans to address challenges facing the country. They said the major problem facing residents of Lower Eastern comprising Makueni, Kitui and Machakos Counties was water shortage. ALSO READ: Confounding actions tell the story of a compromised IEBC They told the Kamba community not to be hoodwinked to blindly support leaders whose interest was to create positions for themselves at the expense of addressing the challenges facing them. Addressing rallies in Matiliku and Kisau grounds in Makueni County Saturday, President Kenyatta said NASA leaders failed to include construction of dams and irrigation in their manifesto. &ldquo;The major problem facing Ukambani people is lack of water. Without dams and irrigation, we can&rsquo;t produce enough food as well as access clean drinking water and that for irrigation purposes,&rdquo; said Ruto. &ldquo;Kalonzo knows well that there is no water at home (Ukambani) and yet he continues to follow someone who does not have the interest of the Kamba community at heart,&rdquo; he added. President Kenyatta said the Government has approved up to Sh40 billion for the construction of Thwake Dam as part of efforts to transform the lives of the people in Ukambani. &ldquo;Out of the 57 dams Jubilee plans to construct across the country, eight of them will be in Ukambani. Surely, there is no way some people can claim to help Ukambani if they have no agenda on dams and irrigation,&rdquo; said Ruto. Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko told the Kamba community to stop following opposition leaders who have no plans for the region. &ldquo;Jubilee has ensured that people from Ukambani are part of the government yet we didn&rsquo;t vote for it in 2013. It has also implemented part of its agenda for our community while those we supported never remembered us when they were in power,&rdquo; said Sonko. ALSO READ: State rolls out security plan for 20 poll chaos hot spots MPs Joe Mutambo, Rachel Nyamai, former legislators Peter Kiilu, Kalemba Ndile, Peter Maundu and Gideon Ndambuki were present.