NAIROBI, KENYA: Futurist and global thought leader Charles Fadel says artificial intelligence will eliminate 38 per cent of jobs in the next 15 years and there are new jobs technology will create. In a new interview with CMRubinWorld, Fadel discusses the four different job types and the likelihood of them being offshored or automated. He notes that &quot;routine impersonal work, such as basic accounting, call center operators, and airline help desks&quot; are already being offshored and &quot;are moving towards further automation&quot;. Non-routine impersonal work such as X-Ray interpretation and pathologists, legal discovery, and document editors are becoming &quot;increasingly offshored even though they are harder to automate.&quot; The third job group is routine personal work, such as taxi drivers and cleaning services which he says &quot;will remain on shore but also might become jobs for robots.&quot; ALSO READ: EU hits Google with record Sh278 billion fine As for CEOs and surgeons, Fadel notes that these types of jobs &quot;will most likely remain onshore for a long time, and are also harder to automate.&quot; Fadel adds that artificial intelligence, despite taking away jobs, might create high-paying jobs such as the app developer, the driverless car engineer, and the big data analyst. He believes that the automation of jobs and the competencies required for the jobs of the future require a new approach to education. Education systems must make themselves relevant. &quot;We need courageous cathedral builders! We also need to address traditional experts&#39; biases clinging to their narrow domains, parents&#39; old personal experiences biasing their views, and teachers&#39; and administrators&#39; lack of training and leadership, respectively,&quot; says the futurist. &quot;We talk about flipping the classroom, we must talk about flipping the curriculum,&quot; says Fadel, who&#39;s also the Founder and Chairman of the Center for Curriculum Redesign and the author of &quot;Four-Dimensional Education&quot;. Fadel&#39;s research into education, and more specifically, curriculum, has focused on developing innovative ways to revamp education systems to make learning more relevant to a 21st Century world. Last week, Google hosted a forum for journalists both local and from Nigeria ,software developers and bloggers&nbsp; dubbed: &#39;Magic in the Machine&#39; in a Nairobi hotel that focused on Machine Learning and its application in improving the products we use. ALSO READ: Google tightens measures to remove extremist content on YouTube During the training, Google revealed its latest technology advancement - that will simplify human lives through artificial intelligence. The forum further revealed how research on the human brain has advanced neuroscience in computer technology for example in the areas of image recognition, language translation, speech recognition, natural language understanding and voice search engine. According to Blaise Aguera y Arcas , Principal Scientist who leads a team at Google focusing on Machine Intelligence for mobile devices, machine learning improves the (often free!) products Google offers everyone, and makes possible what was impossible just a few years ago. The Google Assistant for instance uses a variety of machine learning technologies to provide a better experience, from speech recognition to better ranking the information that comes back to answer questions.