Bomet Jubilee gubernatorial candidate Joyce Laboso has unveiled a seven point plan for Bomet County if elected during the August polls. &nbsp; She has vowed to transform the county through improved agriculture, provision of clean water, education for all and better healthcare services. &nbsp; Top on her agenda is poverty eradication through heightened agricultural activities. &nbsp; &quot;We shall put in place policies that prioritise economic opportunities to eradicate poverty. Leveraging the strengths of our productive land and hardworking people with focus on Tea and dairy sector,&quot; said Laboso. &nbsp; The Sotik MP has promised to revolutionise the tea sector with a pledge to strive to improve prices and stop farmers&#39; outcry. &nbsp; Being the main cash crop with farmers in 18 out of the 25 wards in the county depending on tea, Laboso said she will ensure efficient management and operation of factories. ALSO READ: Opinion: Warning on elections violence ominous &quot;My intention is seeing a reduced cost of management of tea processing so that farmers can earn more,&quot; she said adding that she would also strive to brand and market tea from the county. &nbsp; In the dairy and livestock sector, Laboso has pledged to fight middle men that have become a thorn in the flesh of farmers. &nbsp; She said with extension services and reliable Artificial Insemination at hand, farmers will bank on her administration to deliver good prices for milk. &nbsp; &quot;Streamlining and sustaining provision of subsidized AI services for better breeds is key to enriching our members,&quot; Laboso said. &nbsp; Besides dairy and tea, laboso has vowed to tackle the growing needs for cooperatives that will hold farmers together. &nbsp; Laboso said she has also put in place an elaborate scheme for water to expand community water projects to meet demands. She said if elected each ward will have operational three water projects. &nbsp; &quot;We will also put up at least 3 high volume water tanks in each ward to ensure that water reaches over 300,000 households across the county,&quot; she noted. &nbsp; ALSO READ: Opinion: Is Opposition's fear of secret polling stations tenable? Institutions likes schools, health facilities and market centres, laboso said will also bank on her administration to access clean water at all time. &nbsp; Roads and infrastructure also features in Laboso&#39;s agenda with a pledge to tarmac up to 100KM of roads in the county. &nbsp; In health management, laboso pledged to increase the number of health facilities with a view of ensuring locals access treatment with ease. &nbsp; In the Education sector, she pledged to build ECDE centres and complete those started by the incumbent, Governor Isaac Ruto. &nbsp; Laboso also asked locals to bank on her for good governance and accountability.