Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka has accused President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto of engaging in political flattery by launching fake projects in Ukambani to hoodwink voters. Kalonzo has told off the President and his deputy for duping his former Mwingi North constituents in Kitui County by launching a bogus Sh1.4 billion water project last Friday. Kalonzo challenged Uhuru and Ruto to tell Kenyans why they launched an existing Kiambere-Mwingi-Water and Sanitation Project in Kitui without the contactor and representation from the Italian Government who funded the project. &quot;This is hot air and highest dishonesty from the presidency. They should stop turning Kambas and Kenyans into fools. Voters are clever enough to weigh truth and fiction,&quot; he said. While winding up his two-day vote hunting campaigns in his larger Mwingi region, the former Vice President said he personally initiated phase one of the Kiambere-Mwingi water project which supplies water to Mwingi and its environs during his tenure in parliament. Kalonzo said he later supervised the commissioning of the phase II of the project that take water to most parts of Mwingi North and West (formerly South) constituencies at a cost of Sh2 billion. ALSO READ: Fallacy about Jubilee and Nasa housing promises He termed the President&#39;s forays in Kitui, Makueni and Machakos Counties as inconsequential. On Monday, Kalonzo drummed support for Wiper candidates in Katse, Kyuso and Tseikuru trading centres in Mwingi North and on Tuesday he toured Ngomeni and Kamuwongo trading centres in Mwingi North, Nguutani and Kithyoko markets in Mwingi West constituency. Flanked by Kitui Governor Julius Malombe, senatorial candidate Enoch Wambua, Woman Representative Irene Kasalu, parliamentary aspirants Paul Nzengu (Mwingi North) and Charles Nguna (Mwingi West), the NASA leader united the voters in the Lower Eastern region under Wiper in preparation for the August 8 General Election. Kalonzo said the writing was on the wall and that Kenyans were solidly behind NASA and all systems were ready to send Jubilee government home in the forthcoming polls. Mr wambua said political parties exist to compete for power and control of national resources, adding that Wiper was gearing up to position itself for the particular national challenge. &quot;Any political formation that threatens the position of Wiper as the dominant party in the Lower Eastern region must be rejected on the ballot on August 8,&quot; Wambua said. Dr Malombe said he was confident Kitui voters will not vote overwhelmingly for him and exclusively for other Wiper candidates for various seats to avoid tying Kalonzo with &quot;wrong&quot; candidates. ALSO READ: NASA wants dead voters weeded out The Governor said Kambas will vote with zeal with 2022 in mind when Kalonzo will take over Presidency from Raila Odinga.