&nbsp; Deputy President William Ruto greets residents of Ndalu in Tongaren constituency when he campaigned in Western region yesterday. [Benjamin Sakwa, Standard] Deputy President William Ruto took Jubilee&rsquo;s campaigns to Bungoma County, with a promise to pick Water Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa as his running mate in 2022. Mr Ruto urged Western region to support Jubilee for a better chance of ascending to power in the future. The DP said he stood a better chance of ascending to power after president Uhuru Kenyatta completes his two terms. &ldquo;My friends, I ask you to support us as we are in this together. You have a realistic chance of winning. I will pick Eugene as my running mate and when I complete my term, I will support him to ascend to the top seat,&rdquo; he said. The former Eldoret North MP maintained he would unite various tribes to ensure they are fully represented in Government. ALSO READ: Jubilee leaders from Narok dismiss Raila Odinga Ruto was in a region Jubilee Party has toured more than three times in the past one month. He said it would be an uphill task for the National Super Alliance (NASA) to win the August 8 elections because the coalition had no plan for the country. Ruto cautioned the electorate against voting for those he said were more concerned about creating positions for themselves and dividing Kenyans along ethnic lines. &ldquo;No one votes with the intention of losing. This is why you should vote for Jubilee as it is destined to win the next election because of its clear vision and agenda for this country,&rdquo; said&nbsp; Ruto. He said there is no way NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga, who served as Prime Minister for five years, can beat Jubilee as he has nothing to show in terms of development. He said Jubilee had initiated tangible projects. Besides rooting for President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s re-election, Ruto also had a bag of goodies for area residents. While at Ndalu in Tongaren Constituency, the DP commissioned a new administrative unit. ALSO READ: Kidero, Sonko clash over DP Ruto involvement in Nairobi politics He said Bungoma North district had been split and a new district created, Tongaren district, adding that formation of the new district would enable residents access Government services easily. &ldquo;We want our people to get Government services with ease and that is why we have created a new administrative unit that will (help) serve our citizens better,&rdquo; he said. Ruto further said the Government had set aside Sh6.5 million to connect Ndalu residents with electricity. He said the Jubilee administration had targeted 150 homes to be connected to the national grid in the next three months.&nbsp;