NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga (right) and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka dance before a crowd at Kinango grounds in Kwale County. [Photo: Maarufu Mohamed, Standard] The National Super Alliance (NASA) Saturday said President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto got votes through rigging and out of sympathy because of the ICC cases they were facing in 2013. Speaking at the Diani showground after traversing Kwale County, the NASA leaders said that ICC was no longer a campaign issue and stated that all rigging loopholes had been sealed. &ldquo;Jubilee did not defeat us . . . they stole and got sympathy votes because of ICC. Kenyans were then also ignorant on the duo&rsquo;s character but now that they are known it will be hard for them,&rdquo; said NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga. He said NASA would win the presidential poll resoundingly because results announced at constituency level would be final, stating that their rejection of Al Ghurair Printing and Publishing Company was to stop the manipulation of the vote. &ldquo;Everywhere we go Kenyans are crying because of bad leadership. Last night nine people were attacked and killed and more died last month but the government is doing nothing about it,&rdquo; he said. Part of the problem ALSO READ: Presidential debate is a pointless charade borrowed from the US Raila said the Jubilee government had not fulfilled it pre-election pledges from 2013 and could therefore not be relied upon to bring about meaningful change. &ldquo;We as NASA have said we want to bring change. Jubilee are part of the problem and not the solution,&rdquo; he said. Speaking at the rally, Kalonzo urged Coast residents to come out in large numbers on Election Day and vote for Raila. He said Jubilee was banking on voter apathy and were expecting that only 60 per cent of voters would turn up in the six Coast counties so that it could have a chance. &ldquo;Their narrative is that you don&rsquo;t come out in large numbers so that we don&rsquo;t win. Last time it was 60 per cent turnout, this time it should reach 85 per cent,&rdquo; said Kalonzo. This message was reiterated by Musalia Mudavadi who said teachers would overwhelmingly vote for NASA in the August 8 elections. &ldquo;Our researchers have identified that of our one million votes at the Coast, only 60 per cent are ardent followers of NASA. I want to tell you that if 80 to 85 per cent voters turn out, Jubilee will go home,&rdquo; said Mudavadi. Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula said President Kenyatta&#39;s campaign team had panicked and are now focused on chasing after the NASA team as part of their strategy to get votes. ALSO READ: To avert chaos, Jubilee and NASA must play by the election rules &ldquo;They now run to wherever we have been to put out fire. We don&rsquo;t fear voting but what we have done is to make sure there is a level playing ground. We have sealed all the loopholes,&rdquo; Wetang&#39;ula said. Step down Kwale politics also dominated the rally, with both Raila and Kalonzo saying the alliance will choose between Chirau Mwakwere and Issah Chipera who to face Governor Salim Mvurya of the Jubilee Party. &ldquo;We don&rsquo;t want Mvurya to win and that is why we have started talking to our two candidates. We want one of them to step down,&rdquo; said Raila. Others who addressed party supporters included Siaya Senator James Orengo and Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho who both accused Uhuru and Ruto of doing little to ensure the grievances of people at the coast were addressed.