Governor Moses Akaranga has asked area residents to re-elect him on August 8, saying he has a lot in store for them. The governor said he had achieved a lot in his first term and that he needs another five years to complete the projects that are still underway. &quot;At the core of my administration&#39;s second term will be creation of 10,000 jobs both directly and indirectly. Negotiations are at an advanced stage to come up with export processing zones and industrial parks starting in Kaimosi before spreading to other sub-counties,&quot; Akaranga said. The governor, who spoke during the launching of his manifesto in Mbale town, noted that despite the many challenges he faced in devolution, he was able to initiate development projects that have changed the lives of the residents. &quot;I started from zero and came up with something. I am sure if i am given another term, I will be able to build on what I started and do much more. I am equal to the task,&quot; he said. He added: &quot;This manifesto is premised on several pillars, including improvement of public service, infrastructure, education and technology, health services, food security, economy, land and physical planning, development sports, and natural resources and environment management.&quot; ALSO READ: Nobody will be evicted after August elections, MP assures Narok residents Akaranga, who is seeking re-election on his Progressive Party of Kenya, also used the occasion to introduce his running mate, Joseph Imbunya, a medical doctor based in Botswana. He said his plan for the county is in line with the country&#39;s development blueprint, Vision 2030, which seeks to make Kenya an industrialised country. Akaranga said his government would address the plight of youths, orphans, and widows by empowering them. &quot;We will further support the growth and development of the cooperative movement in the county.&quot; He said he would put in place a social protection fund that will target youth, women, widows and orphan, and marginalised groups. He said among the projects initiated by the county government are the opening up of rural areas through grading roads that were impassable. &quot;We are now targeting to tarmac at least five kilometres of roads in each of the five sub-counties by 2022,&quot; he said. Vihiga had 202,822 registered voters in March 2016. Akaranga will face Emuhaya MP Wilbur Otichillo of ODM and Yusuf Chanzu of ANC. [Eric Lungai]&nbsp; ALSO READ: Why lack of voter education will impact negatively on August elections