NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga is expected to take his campaigns to perceived Jubilee strongholds this week as campaigns intensify.&nbsp; Raila will campaign in President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s Kiambu backyard, the county with the second highest number of registered voters at 1.1 million, after Nairobi. On Wednesday, Raila will be in Kericho for a series of rallies before heading to his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka&#39;s stronghold, Kitui County, for a major rally. On Friday, Raila will lead NASA in a prayer service at Uhuru Park in Nairobi before addressing a rally at Kamukunji grounds. The NASA flag bearer has had a very busy schedule since his campaigns started. He has held meetings in 100 different venues in the last one month. The tours have intensified as the Opposition chief bids to meet the constitutional requirement of garnering 25 per cent of votes cast in a majority of counties in addition to securing 50 per cent plus one of all votes cast. ALSO READ: Governor Ali Roba dismisses council of elders outfits as baseless unit The team that also comprises co-principals Musalia Mudavadi, Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula and Isaac Ruto has been forced split at time to cover more ground. On June 1, Raila attended the Madaraka Day celebrations in Nyeri County before heading to Kakamega for Nasa&rsquo;s official campaign launch. The NASA team was in Kapsabet, Nandi County, on June 4 before it headed to Ukambani and held a rally in Machakos the following day. On June 8, Raila led his team to Garsen, Witu and Lamu, before heading to Kaloleni, Rabai, Mariakani in Kilifi and ended his day in Mombasa. On June 9, the Raila-led coalition addressed rallies at Mwatate, Wundanyi and Voi in Taita Taveta. The following day, on June 10, the NASA team addressed rallies at Mtito, Kambu, Kibwezi and Wote in Makueni. On June 11, Raila was at Kabondo-Kasipul in Homa Bay County.The NASA principals held a strategy meeting in Nairobi, on June 13 and 14, before going to Kajiado on June 15. ALSO READ: My life is in danger, claims Muthama's ex-wife On June 16, the team was in Tharaka Nithi where it addressed three rallies before heading to Meru the following day. They addressed three rallies in Meru. On June 19, Raila addressed ten rallies in Nairobi and shopped at Naivas Supermarket in Westlands. Accompanied Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero, Raila addressed rallies at Dagoretti Corner, Congo, Lutheran Church and Section 56 in Dagoretti. In Westlands, he addressed rallies at Express Bottom Line, Kangemi Social Hall, Village Inn, St Joseph&rsquo;s, N. Market and Kangemi Market. On June 20, Raila and his team were back in Kajiado, where he had been a week earlier. During the earlier visit, Raila was accused of inciting the Maasai but he said he just asked them not to sell their land. Using three choppers, the NASA principals, save for Ruto, addressed rallies at Oloitokitok, Kimaana and Kitengela in Kajiado and Emali in Makueni . On June 21, the NASA brigade was at Naivasha&rsquo;s Kamere estate in Nakuru County to hunt for votes. ALSO READ: High Court orders repeat of Nyali Jubilee primaries On June 22, the team split and held rallies in Kiminini, Saboti and Endebess while another team addressed rallies at Kwanza and Cherengany before converging in Kitale. On June 23, one team addressed rallies at Cheptais, Sirisia, Bumula while another was at Tongaren, Kimilili and Webuye before they again met in Bungoma town. On June 24, one team went to Shamakhokho, Serem, Boyani, Gisambai while the other held rallies at Luanda, Khumusalaba and Majengo before meeting in Mbale. One team addressed rallies at Ekwanda, Luanda, Ebusakami, Kima, Esibuye, Mwichio, Ilingu, Emusutswi, Kilingili, Stend Kisa and Sosa on June 24. The other team was in Chavakali, Sabatia, Shamakhokho, Cheptulu, Serem, Banja, Gambogi, Boyani, Majengo and Sosa before converging at Mbale Cultural Centre. &nbsp;