Thirdway Alliance presidential candidate Ekuru Aukot Saturday launched his manifesto, with a pledge to reduce the burden of taxation on Kenyans if elected on August 8. Together with his running mate Emmanuel Nzai, Aukot proposes a raft of radical strategies which he says will help make life easier for majority of poor Kenyans. Among the proposals he will introduce if he clinches the presidency include abolishing income tax for people who earn less than Sh30,000 and doing away with Value Added Tax (VAT). &quot;We will reduce the tax burden for low income earners, expand individual tax bands and set minimum taxable income at above Sh30,000. I will abolish VAT and replace it with Sales Tax capped at 3 per cent,&quot; he said. &quot;This will not only increase household disposable income, lower cost of goods and increase the purchasing power of Kenyans, but also spur economic growth,&quot; added the presidential hopeful at the party&#39;s headquarters in Nairobi. Both President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga have promised to introduce free education for learners in secondary schools after the August 8 General Election. ALSO READ: NASA leaders raise fears of secret polling stations Dr Aukot explained that the Alliance will not only abolish fees in all public schools, but also ensure the same is extended to public colleges and universities. &quot;We promise to abolish fees at all levels in public schools, colleges and universities. To boost academic levels in our schools, we shall make it compulsory requirement for all public servants to enroll their children in public schools,&quot; he said. With concerns being raised over run-away corruption in the country, the Thirdway Alliance in its blue-print has innovative solutions, which the party believes will deal with the vice once and for all. Among the proposals to end theft of public funds include; introduction of price capping of all public procurement of goods and services and making it mandatory for Government suppliers to declare all their payees.