Opposition chief Raila Odinga&rsquo;s top political adviser Salim Lone and think-tank Adams Oloo want the electoral commission to release the report of the audit of the voters&rsquo; register by KPMG. They have also demanded that the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) undertakes a dry run of the Electronic Voter Identification Devices (EVIDs) to authenticate the voters. The Opposition has also claimed mischief by IEBC after it suspended the use of the SMS 70,000 platform that exposed a myriad discrepancies with none-existing IDs and now allegedly want to split the register in 13 regions. The duo has asked IEBC to state the complementary measures it will use in the event the system fails on poling day, as witnessed in the 2013 elections. IEBC suspended the launch of the number on Friday saying it was only a trial and pushed it to an unspecified date but this has not gone down well with NASA. Public confidence &ldquo;We don&rsquo;t want a new case of Green book, Black Books or Special Books being introduced at the last minute,&rdquo; said Prof Lome. ALSO READ: Nairobi: Storm over IEBC register Similarly, he argued that the records of slain businessman Jacob Juma and former Minister John Michuki, the dead relatives of our secretariat staffs far as 2013 are some of the names that poked up in the register of voters. &ldquo;The new register does not inspire public confidence in the commission&rsquo;s ability to conduct credible polls. What is worrying is the level of preparedness slightly over a month to the elections yet IEBC has been working for months to clean the register,&rdquo; said Lome. Prof Oloo accused the commission of flouting the law, saying the Election Law (Amendment) Act, 2016 provided that IEBC verifies the register and submits it to Parliament for scrutiny and adoption. &ldquo;Parliament is still in session, it only adjourned Sine Die (Indefinitely). The Speakers and Clerks are in office. The register should be forwarded to them for direction,&rdquo; he said.