&nbsp; The upcoming Konza City Complex, which will be the main office block for Konza Techno City Authority. [John Muia, Standard] The Government will open doors at the upcoming Konza Techno City soon after it completes key infrastructural projects. State Department of ICT Principal Secretary Victor Kyalo and Director General of Kenya Vision 2030 Secretariat Julius Muia confirmed all key infrastructure components required for the project were being worked on. The officials also reaffirmed the Government&rsquo;s commitment to implementing the project. &ldquo;The most exciting thing is that two of the key infrastructure components required for this project namely the sewer system and access road have kicked off and this should now pave way for enlisted investors to start operations,&rdquo; said Kyalo. The two, who addressed journalists during a tour to assess the progress of the first phase of the project, said the next three months will be busy, with additional contractors on site. The PS revealed that horizontal infrastructure for internet, power and water were also under way in the 5,000 acres set aside for the city. The digital city is expected to host almost a quarter million people. ALSO READ: Incorporate intellectual rights in manifestos Good progress has been made of the eight-storey Konza City Administration Complex with about 200 construction workers and dozens of engineers currently on site. The complex will serve as an office park and will also have a hotel, a conference centre and other commercial establishments. Indirect jobs Konza Techno City, the most expensive Government undertaking in the implementation of Kenya Vision 2030, will generate about 17,000 direct high-value jobs, and a further 68,000 indirect jobs once completed, according to the PS. The PS said completion of the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) project and the ongoing dualling of the Athi River-Machakos highway would boost the city&rsquo;s strategic capacity for greater economic transformation in the region. &ldquo;The completion of SGR also opens for us an avenue to open a station for Konza and to look at the city as a special economic zone, which is very close to the main artery of communication and transport,&rdquo; he added. ALSO READ: Vodacom Tanzania extends deadline for stock market listing Dr Muia said in the next one month, Kenya Advanced Institute of Technology modelled on the Korea Advanced Institute of Technology, will start construction works in Konza. The proposed Thwake Multipurpose Dam, whose design is now complete, will provide a stable water supply to the city. &ldquo;The mega dam has already been designed and compensation is almost complete for residents who will be displaced,&rdquo; Muia&nbsp; said. He urged Kenyans to take advantage of the project by positioning themselves to exploit any opportunities that will be presented by the techno city.&nbsp;