Major informal settlements in Nairobi have been mapped as hot spots ahead of next month&rsquo;s polls. Nairobi police commanders met &nbsp;to discuss how they will secure the trouble spots before, during and after the elections. Nairobi police boss Japheth Koome said after the meeting that&nbsp;they had realized all informal settlement are now regarded as hotspots. He said they had now deployed enough personnel to ensure the environment is safe and secure for the residents and visitors. This means that almost the entire city is troublesome politically. According to City Hall, there are 60 informal settlements in Nairobi. Given that the 2017 General Elections is attracting unprecedented competitions among political parties and aspirants at both grass root&nbsp; and national level there are more fears of violence. ALSO READ: Making sense of Jubilee, NASA&rsquo;s blueprints quite a daunting task Nairobi being the capital is more competitive. Most of these settlements are densely populated, are around major estates and are spread allover the city. Koome however named Landhies Road, Umoja, Kariobangi, Dandora, Kayole, Kiambiu, Githogoro, Kibera, Mathare Mukuru slums, Dagorretti, Kawangware, Buruburu, Globe Cinema, Kangemi, Ngara, Marurui and Korogocho as main points of interest. &ldquo;We have planned well and will deploy accordingly. Almost all informal settlements have been mapped out and are seen as hot spots,&rdquo; he said. The meeting took place at a city hotel and was attended by top commanders from police, National Intelligence Service, Kenya Wildlife Service, Kenya Forest Service, Prisons and National Youth Service. The commanders were taken through manuals of covering the polls. The main constituencies in the city include Starehe, Kamkunji, Ruaraka, Mathare, Kasarani, Dagoretti South, Embakasi North, Embakasi East, Embakasi South, Embakasi Central, Embakasi West, Makadara, Langata, Dagoretti North, Westlands, Kibra and Roysambu. ALSO READ: State rolls out security plan for 20 poll chaos hot spots All the tallying centres will be adequately protected as well as polling stations. Koome said they had also identified vital installations in the city tat will require upgraded security. &ldquo;Let none try to disturb security and freedom of others. We are apolitical as security agencies and will ensure Nairobians exercise their rights,&rdquo; he said. He said they will get extra security officials from National Intelligence Service, Kenya Wildlife Service, Kenya Forest Service, Prisons and National Youth Service. The officials will be gazzetted as special police officers before being deployed to serve, he added.