&nbsp; NASA flag bearer Raila Odinga and Jubilee Party leader Uhuru Kenyatta&nbsp; Uhuru Kenyatta, Jubilee Party Leadership, Integrity and Corruption. The President has been accused of presiding over a corrupt administration that saw him edge out six of his Cabinet secretaries, a number of Principal secretaries and parastatal heads. Though Uhuru recently scored a first in the completion of the multi-billion Standard Gauge Railway, rumours are swirling that the project was yet another cash cow for top officials in his administration who inflated the cost to the tune of Sh100 billion. He is also accused of diverting the project to pass through the Kenyatta family land in a planned Naivasha dry port) which was not part of the initial feasibility study route. He will be expected to explain the controversial Sh250 billion Eurobond funds which he has maintained has been properly accounted for in development projects. The NYS scam is still haunting his administration after it was established that the money lost ran into billions of shillings. The President will also be confronted with the Afya House scandal that saw Sh5.3 billion lost. It is yet to be resolved even as the United States suspended funding for activities carried out by a number of Ministry of Health departments. Announcing the funding suspension, the US cited unspecified conditions&nbsp; that are yet to be met by some of the implementing partners. The laptop tendering Sh 24.6billion awarded to an Indian firm-Olive telecommunication will also not escape President Kenyatta during the debate as he seeks a second term in office. ALSO READ: Court to make ruling on Presidential Debate National Cohesion. President Kenyatta has been accused of presiding over a country where only two communities have a lion&rsquo;s share of public appointments. In particular, the Kikuyu and Kalenjin communities control majority of the Cabinet positions and other top government positions leaving out the rest of Kenyans. President Kenyatta also stands accused of telling off some of the Opposition strongholds that did not vote for him in 2013 that they were benefiting from his government. He told the Coast residents to pay for the Waitiki land because they did not vote for him. He further told off the Turkanas, saying&nbsp; even if they failed to vote for him, the world will not come to a standstill. Education. Although the Jubilee administration has introduced examination fees waiver to candidates in Class Eight and Form Four, Uhuru will be on the spot top explain poor infrastructure in schools, especially those in semi-arid and arid areas.He will also be confronted with unfulfilled pledge to provide all class one with laptops. The president will be put to task on why his administration has been delaying disbursement of free secondary education funds to schools since he came to power in 2013. Youth. Uhuru Kenyatta will be expected to explain why under his leadership more than Sh800 million was lost in the Youth Enterprise Development Fund (YEDF) that forced him to disband the board. Unemployment will certainly feature, especially his administration&rsquo;s promise to create a million job vis-a-vis massive job loses in the country. Food security and cost of living. Under Uhuru&rsquo;s administration Kenya has witnessed the highest cost of living leading to a revolt dubbed &lsquo;Unga Revolution&rsquo; and forced Kenya to import maize from Mexico. Although Uhuru was voted on the platform of reducing the cost of living, he has presided over a country where the gap between the rich and the poor has widened to high levels. ALSO READ: Court to make ruling on Presidential Debate The cost of basic commodities like maize flour, sugar, milk, bread, paraffin, cooking gas, electricity and various foods stuff have all sky rocketed despite. Uhuru had promised to put one million acres of land under irrigation to boost food security. But the Sh15.3 billion Galana-Kulali project in Tana River remains a white elephant. Defence and internal security. Under the Jubilee administration, Kenyan forces have lost hundreds of its uniformed officers in the line of duty to Al Shabaab militia in the war torn Somali. Kenyans would want to know the exit strategy for KDF from Somali, security lapses that led to the Westgate, Garissa University Attack and Mpeketoni blood bath that left hundreds of Kenyans dead and others maimed. They would also seek answers for bandit attacks that have rocked West Pokot and Baringo. Raila Odinga- NASA Leadership, Integrity and Corruption. Kenyans would want answers on claims that he has been shielding perceived corrupt leaders aligned to him while attacking Jubilee&rsquo;s administration for abetting corruption.&nbsp; Some of the governors aligned to him have been unable to respond to Audit queries with Jubilee claiming that the missing funds are allegedly being used to finance his activities.In parliament for the first time, the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) chaired by an ODM member was disbanded and reconstituted following claims of extortion to cover various corruption investigations. Raila has always maintained that former Devolution CS Anne Waiguru was the chief architect of the Sh 791 million scam of the National Youth Service (NYS) yet some of his close lieutenants were also implicated. Raila will also be confronted with the allegations that his family and close lieutenants were soliciting for kickbacks from Dominion Farm owner to fund his Presidential campaigns in 2007. National Cohesion.The former Premier will be confronted with issues of the rise in nepotism in 2010 during the Grand Coalition government. In that year a parliamentary committee on equal opportunity had sought answers from Raila on the rise of nepotism in treasury, public universities and the Office of the President as the main culprits where nepotism is rampant. ALSO READ: Raila hints at when he may step aside The then Head of Public Service Francis Muthaura ordered ministries to ensure that not more than one-third of employees in any government department should be from one ethnic community. Raila will be expected to explain in the event he is elected President how he will actualize National unity and cohesion to build a strong nation. Youth. The ghost of the Kazi Kwa Vijana (KKV) program initiated during the Grand Coalition government under his docket as the Prime Minister still lives. The project failed to benefit the youth as envisaged. Apart from that the former Premier will be on spot to explain to Kenyans what magic he intends to use to create more jobs should he be elected the 5th President. Food Security and Cost of living.The NASA Presidential candidate will be taken to task over the measures he will take to ensure Kenyans are food secure and the cost of living which is at roof top brought down. Raila will be on the spot to elaborate the plans he has outlined in the NASA manifesto to increase food productivity, value addition and the plan for pastoralists. Defence and Internal Security. Under the Grand Coalition Government, Kenyan troops were sent to Somali to pursue Al Shaabab militants and restore peace in North Eastern and Coast regions that had become a hot bed of their activities. The former Prime Minister would be expected to explain to Kenyans why the Grand Coalition Government sent troops to the war-torn Somali and now wants them withdrawn. Raila will also be taken to task to explain the measures that he will employ to ensure that Kenyans are safe both within the border and beyond.&nbsp;