During the 29th Heads of States and Governments Summit in Addis Ababa Ethiopia, for the first time in the history of the African Union, a budget for the youth was allocated under the African Youth Development Fund for USD 7 Million, one percent of the African Union budget to fast track African youth activities. The funds will be used to Strengthen the capacity building of the Pan African Youth Union and National Youth Councils as well as the African Union Youth Volunteers programmes. 70% the Fund will be used to finance youth entrepreneurial Projects (Start-up projects). The Pan African Youth Union President, Ms. Francine Muyumba had for the past years mobilized Africa Union Member States, Heads of States &nbsp;and government to ensure the support and&nbsp; adoption of the African Youth Development Fund. Pan African youth Union President, Ms. Francine Muyumba giving her remarks during the first Pan African Youth Conference in Ndjamena ,Chad Prior to the Heads of States Summit, the Chad government in collaboration with the, Africa Union Commission, the Pan African Youth Union which is the official youth body of the Africa Union and the UNFPA organized the first Pan African Youth Conference that was held in Ndjamena capital of the republic of Chad. His Excellency Idriss Deby Itno, President of the Republic of Chad was named champion of the 2017 theme of the 2017 African Union &ldquo;Harnessing Demographic Dividend through Investments in Youth&rdquo; by his peers during the 28th Ordinary Session of the African Union Summit. His mandate as the Leader of the theme is to oversee the implementation of the roadmap adopted at the Kigali Summit and the matrix of activities and to submit a report to the next Summit of Heads of State and Government in July 2017 thus the Pan African Youth Conference was meant to consult the African Youth, who were mobilized by the Pan African Youth Union from across the Continent through its President Ms. Francine Muyumba. In attendance in the Conference was His Excellency Mr. Alpha Conde, the President of the Republic of Guinea and also the current chairman of the Africa Union ,His Excellency Idriss Debby Itno the Chad President, H.E Albert Pahimi Padack&eacute;&nbsp; , Chad Prime Minister, Ms. Francine Muyumba, Pan African Youth Union President, Chad First Lady Her Excellency Hinda Debby Itno, His Excellency Moussa Faki Mahamat, the Africa Union Chairperson and the Vice President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea His Excellency Teodoro Nguema Obiang Mangue and the UNFPA Director General M. Mabingu&rsquo;eNgom. H.E Moussa Faki Mahamat , Africa Union Commission Chairperson giving his remarks to the Youths in the Pan African Youth Conference Before officially closing the meeting, the youths made three major declarations to HE Idriss Debby Itno. They included; The creation of an African Youth Development Fund which was later adopted by the Heads of States during 29th Africa Union Heads of States Summit, Second, that the Pan African Youth Conference be made an annual Conference and lastly, during Heads of States meetings, the Heads of States should include a few youths in their delegations.