A group of students from University of Eldoret (UoE) have developed a cool solution to help tree farmers get the best prices for their produce. The seven innovators from the departments of Forestry and Agro-forestry and Information Technology have developed a mobile application christened MtiCalc. To come up with the innovation took a mix of skills. Moses Shitote, Duncan Kiplangat and Peter Waweru did the code and linkage of the program. Joseph Kharaka, Swaprina Imbosa, Benjamin Mwsambo and Virginia Nyawira &mdash; Forestry and Agro-forestry students &mdash; developed relevant content to ensure efficiency of the application. Mwasambo says the MtiCalc name is derived from two words: Mti which is the Swahili name for Tree and Calc is a short form for the word Calculator. &ldquo;The idea to develop this application was informed by the need to save tree farmers from middlemen that take advantage of their scarce knowledge on market trends,&rdquo; says Mwasambo. ALSO READ: Joy as over 1,500 farmers get title deeds back after debt waiver The best prices A number of farmers have embarked on tree planting as the demand for electric polls surges with the roll out of the Rural Electrification program. Before they embarked on the project, under the tutelage of their Professor Balozi Bekuta, to chart a winning strategy. &ldquo;We gathered information on tree species, market trends and prices which would enable farmers make informed market decisions. We got our info from credible institutions like Kenya Forest Service (KFS) and Kenya Forestry Research Institution (Kefri). Along the way we realised that we needed IT experts to develop a program to help farmers determine prices without traveling long distances to forest stations,&rdquo; explains Bekuta. So how does it work.One keys in the tree species, its purpose for instance timber for fuel or electric poles and then the size of plot where the trees are grown. With that info, the app tabulates and gives the standard market prices in line with KFS rates. ALSO READ: Coffee farmers struggle to recover losses &ldquo;This app enables a farmer to bargain with the middlemen and other buyers from a point of information,&rdquo; says Imbosa. Prof Bekuta&nbsp; says a farmer will only need an ordinary tape measure to determine the diameter and estimates of the tree height. Goodbye middle men &ldquo;You put the tailors&rsquo; tape measure around the tree at breast height and divide the circumference by three to get the diameter and the breadth helps determine the height and key in the application screens. Many farmers can access a smart phone and the tape measure,&rdquo; Bekuta says. The app is already receiving positive reviews. International institutions that include the University of Eastern Finland with a Tanzanian Forest Company have embraced its use. Pamela Ingutia who has planted about 6,000 eucalyptus trees in Nangili, Mumias and Kakamega says the application has helped her get good bargains for her trees. &ldquo;The application gives a standard market value in accordance with KFS market prices. We used to sell trees that cost about Sh5,000 as low as Sh1,800 and Sh2,500. Thanks to the app, now we can know how much a tree will fetch, before we hit the market,&rdquo; she says. ALSO READ: State pays farmers&rsquo; debt after 19 years The students are planning to add more content to the application and enhance its compatibility with other mobile applications like Windows and Iphone.