President Uhuru Kenyatta Thursday warned National Super Alliance (NASA) presidential candidate&nbsp;Raila&nbsp;Odinga against making sensational claims about the military. Uhuru said Odinga&rsquo;s repeated attacks on the Kenya Defence Forces (KDF), which the Opposition says is involved in a plot to rig the elections, would incite the people against the military. Spreading propaganda He chided the Opposition leader for the claims, wondering if he has what it takes to lead the military if he was spreading propaganda against the institution. &ldquo;Surely, you want to be the commander of the armed forces yet you are the same one who is inciting the people against the military?&rdquo; Uhuru posed. The Head of State was speaking at a campaign rally in Nanyuki yesterday where he was accompanied by Deputy President William Ruto. ALSO READ: Inside Dubai&rsquo;s ballot printing factory The Opposition has repeatedly claimed that security personnel have been deployed as poll agents in their strongholds to rig the elections and suppress voter turnout. Thursday, the President said it was the duty of the military and police to protect the country and maintain peace. &ldquo;Campaign for your votes and stop this propaganda of inciting the people or just accept that we will defeat you and let the country progress,&rdquo; he said. The Jubilee Party leaders upped their criticism against the National Super Alliance (NASA) over its move to go to court to prevent the State from deploying Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) in areas perceived to be prone to violence ahead of the polls. Speaking in West Pokot County, Uhuru and Ruto said the plot by their counterparts was uncalled for and an attempt to prevent the security apparatus from discharging their mandate in accordance with the law. &ldquo;These people are now becoming too much. They are now waging war on our officers whose mandate is to protect all Kenyans,&rdquo; said Uhuru. &ldquo;Kenyans want a peaceful election and that is why we should let the security apparatus to work,&rdquo; Ruto noted as he also campaigned for the West Pokot incumbent Governor Simon Kachapin who will face Kanu&rsquo;s Prof John Lonyangapuo, the current senator. ALSO READ: Inside Dubai&rsquo;s ballot printing factory While in Nanyuki, Ruto said their rivals were at the end of the road after alleged attempts to have the election postponed failed. The two Jubilee leaders asked residents to remain peaceful and ignore leaders out to stir ethnic tension. The Head of State, who spoke in Laikipia, assured residents that he would work to boost security in the ethnically-diverse county and asked voters reject sitting MP Mathew Lempurkel. Yet again, Uhuru found himself at crossroads with the choice of governor candidate for Laikipia with Jubilee&rsquo;s Joshua Irungu facing off with former Assistant Minister Ndiritu Mureithi. Cabinet secretaries And speaking in Adungosi, Teso South on Thursday, Uhuru asked Odinga to stop attacking his Cabinet secretaries unless he wants to be one. &ldquo;If he (Raila) wants to be Cabinet Secretary, I am ready to give him that post after elections,&quot; he said. ALSO READ: IEBC didn't have to wait this long to explain role of security agents Uhuru asked the Teso to ensure they are part of the Government that he will form. [Report by Allan Mungai, Silah Koskei, Irissheel Shanzu and Ignatius Odanga] [email&#160;protected]