Nominated Senator Naisula Lesuuda has hailed the Rwandan people for their resilience and holding together for prosperity after a difficult history of genocide. Speaking during the country&rsquo;s Liberation day at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre, Hon Lessuda thanked Rwandans and their leadership for resilience that characterised them for the past 23 years saying that Kenya recognizes the fact that Rwanda&rsquo;s transformational leadership and resolute political will has been at the centre of the transformed governance and social-economic fabric of the Rwandan society.&nbsp; &ldquo;We note with deep satisfaction that Rwanda has remained steadfast in its endeavor to enhanced national building and development through various fields including: strengthening of national institutions, consolidating peace and security, cultivating national unity, spearheading women empowerment and gender equality and transforming the economic trajectory of the country through vision 2020 agenda&rdquo; The progress registered so far may not have been realized without the resilience of the people of Rwanda to whom we pay special tribute today for believing in true liberation of their motherland and relentlessly working for this cause&rdquo;. Naisula noted Ambassador James Kimonyo together with chief guests Hon. Naisula Lesuuda Liberation Day is an opportunity to celebrate the resilience of Rwandan people. This was said by Rwanda&rsquo;s High Commissioner to Kenya Ambassador James Kimonyo while addressing at least 1200 Rwandans and friends of Rwanda who gathered at Kenyatta Convention Centre in Nairobi to mark the 23rd Anniversary of Liberation. &ldquo;We are gathered here today to honor and salute in a very special way the brave men and women of the then RPA who fought in the struggle for freedom and dignity and those who gave their lives to protect innocent civilians and defend the country from total destruction. Its also an opportunity for us to celebrate the resilience of the Rwandan people.&rdquo; Kimonyo said. He noted that the Liberation Struggle was sparked by decades of divisive politics, abuse of fundamental human rights, greed and mass killings perpetuated by colonial administration and post-independence regimes. &ldquo;Today is a day that we celebrate. We celebrate a day when gallant soldiers of RPA Inkotanyi under the command and leadership of H.E President Paul Kagame that stopped the genocide. We celebrate visionary leadership that has led our country to become a strong and successful state. We celebrate all of you our friends and allies who have supported us throughout this exciting journey and Yes We celebrate our tremendous achievements that have attracted global attention&rdquo;. Kimonyo said The event to mark 23rd Liberation Anniversary in Nairobi was attended by various guests that included Kenyan government officials, diplomatic corps and Rwandans living in Nairobi. It was graced by traditional dance and performance by a renowned popular singer Kidumu Kibido.