Doctors have signed the much anticipated Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) a matter that led to a protracted strike that lasted for more than three months. Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Union (KMPDU) Secretary General Ouma Oluga and Health Cabinet Secretary Cleopa Mailu signed the&nbsp;CBA&nbsp;yesterday, effectively bringing an to end fears that doctors could go back to the streets. Doctors union officials are expected to sign another agreement with the county governments. Dr Oluga, who was accompanied by KMPDU chairman Samuel Oroko, termed the deal with the government a great milestone for the union. &ldquo;It has been a daunting task and journey. Each one of us has a testimony and a scar from that struggle, that dates back to on June 27, 2013 when we had a false start after the first union&nbsp;CBA&nbsp;was signed but never registered,&rdquo; said Oluga. Dr Mailu thanked doctors for being patient and urged them to embrace dialogue to address grievances. &ldquo;The Ministry of Health is grateful to KMPDU for being patient and we are open to dialogue to resolve any outstanding issues,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: Striking nurses press for CBA signing as they vow to fight on The doctors will enjoy a comprehensive cover, workman&rsquo;s compensation, professional indemnity, full retirement benefits and mortgage. Doctors will also be entitled to a car loan scheme facilitated by the Employer at favourable interest rates as per Civil Servants Car Loan and Grants Scheme. Interns will be adequately remunerated, with the&nbsp;CBAstating that medical and dental officers and pharmacist Interns will be compensated a salary equivalent to that of a civil servant in Job Group &lsquo;L&rsquo; or its converted equivalent. &ldquo;They will enjoy all other allowances such as House Allowance as per the deployment station, leave allowance, commuter allowance as per Job Group &lsquo;L&rsquo;,&rdquo; reads the&nbsp;CBAin part. The interns according to the deal shall qualify for employment as registered doctors upon satisfactory completion of Internship. &nbsp;