Funyula MP Paul Otuoma launched his campaigns for the Busia governor&#39;s seat and told Governor Sospeter Ojaamong to brace for a bruising battle. Dr Otuoma made the remarks while being installed as a Teso elder at the home of his running mate, Solomon Abwaku, in Teso North constituency - Ojaamong&#39;s backyard. He urged the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to conduct free, fair and credible elections and vowed that he would not accept the outcome of the elections if the process was not conducted transparently. &quot;I am going to teach him (Ojaamong) a lifetime political lesson. Let him prepare himself for a bruising battle. We want free, fair and credible elections,&quot; said the MP. Otuoma made several stops in Teso North and appealed to the Teso community to back his bid for the governorship. The legislator said Busia was craving development and unity, and added that the current leadership must be changed in August for that dream to be realised. ALSO READ: Raila Odinga hospitalised in Mombasa Hospital &quot;My main objective is to improve the living standards of our people. I will be coming to your homes to ask for votes. When you hear me knock on the door, please open,&quot; he urged. SOLID FOUNDATION Otuoma told his supporters that he was committed to laying a solid foundation to facilitate better service delivery to the residents. &quot;Our people have not felt the fruits of devolution despite the huge amount of money we receive as a county from the national government every financial year,&quot; he claimed. Mr Abwaku said he owed no apologies to anyone and did not betray his community when he agreed to be Otuoma&#39;s running mate. &quot;The journey has challenges but together we will go far. Let us stay together and refuse to be divided along tribal lines by some politicians. No region is under the control of any one person,&quot; said Abwaku. He added that their leadership would hire professionals with the requisite experience and assured that corruption loopholes would be sealed. ALSO READ: Let us commend IEBC for investing in transparency The leaders also urged for peaceful campaigns.&nbsp; &nbsp;