&nbsp; Senator Mike Sonko has promised reforms targeting traffic jams, water shortages, poor housing and sanitation within 100 days if he is elected governor. In a seven-point manifesto launched Sunday, the Jubilee Party&#39;s Nairobi governor candidate has vowed to reverse some of the programmes started by Governor Evans Kidero, including the payment system, Jambo Pay. Sonko and his running mate Polycarp Igathe have listed traffic management and transport, housing and settlement, education and health, environment, jobs and social inclusion as some of the areas they want to reform to make Nairobi &quot;beautiful, prosperous and safe&quot; again. Initiate audit If elected on August 8, Sonko pledges to initiate an audit of all county properties to help recover assets lost or misappropriated in the last five years of Dr Kidero&#39;s reign. ALSO READ: Kidero, Sonko in tight race for top Nairobi seat Sonko also promises to revoke all irregular and illegal contracts awarded by the current regime as part of his plans to dismantle graft cartels at City Hall. &quot;Through relevant Government bodies, we will seek to recover assets and funds that have been misappropriated by the officials of the county government,&quot; said Sonko. In his bid to fight corruption, all senior employees in his administration will commit to an accountability code to prevent siphoning of public resources. &quot;We will require senior staff to sign a Code of Ethics on Accountability affirming their personal commitment to comply with the law, maintain proper accounts and comply with and implement the recommendations of the Controller of Budget and the Auditor General,&quot; states the manifesto. He pledges to establish the county traffic control command centre, which will use the CCTV infrastructure installed by the national government to direct traffic marshalls on the road in his plans to ease traffic jams. Give incentives Sonko&#39;s administration would also give incentives to high-capacity buses as a way of encouraging their use in the city. ALSO READ: Sonko takes Nairobi County poll chief to task over voter education &quot;We shall immediately allow vehicles with more than 60 passengers to start plying Nairobi routes and give incentives to transport companies to introduce double-decker buses,&quot; promises the manifesto. Within 100 days in office, Sonko pledges to organise hawkers and small-scale traders to identify specific hours, days and designated spaces for them to conduct their business without interfering with the traffic flow in the central business district. Should he win, Sonko has promised to eliminate the touting fee because it has nurtured corruption in the transport sector. &quot;We shall eliminate the touting fee, which has nurtured corruption and is being used by the city inspectorate to harass matatu industry players,&quot; says Sonko. And in their five-year plan for traffic management, Sonko and Igathe promise to have vehicles move in one direction to ease traffic. &quot;Reduce traffic into the CBD by creating Park-and-Ride multi-storey car parks on Thika Road (near Drive In), on Mombasa Road, Ngong Road and Waiyaki Way around Westlands,&quot; pledges Sonko. He also pledges to remove all on-the-street parking from Moi Avenue, Koinange Street, Tom Mboya Street, Muindi Mbingu Street and Kirinyaga Road. ALSO READ: Court frees county staff in Sonko bribery claims Broader paths He promises to beautify streets and make broader paths for pedestrians as well as create designated drop-off and pick-up points for pedestrians on Haile Selassie and Kenyatta avenues as well as at Wakulima Market, St Peter Clavers, Railways Terminus and KenCom bus stop. The Sonko administration will also expand the CBD to include Westlands, Pangani, Eastleigh, Lusaka Road, Lang&#39;ata Road, Mbagathi Road and Hurlingham. And to ensure that all Nairobi residents get clean water, Sonko promises to shut down all illegal water points and connections. In the housing sector, Sonko is pledging to develop an affordable housing plan to ensure low-cost housing for the poor, particularly those living in slums across the county. [email&#160;protected]