President Uhuru Kenyatta took his re-election campaign to Ukambani, taunting his opponents&#39; ages and service record. Uhuru scoffed at the National Super Alliance (NASA) leaders&#39; agenda of change, saying they had squandered their time in Government without initiating development projects. Speaking in Machakos County where he commissioned a Sh2.2 billion water project, the President expressed confidence that he would beat NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga in the August 8 polls. He said Raila, his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka, and other NASA leaders Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang&#39;ula had been in Government for many years and should not lie to Kenyans about bringing change. COMPARING YEARS &quot;What we have done in four years is more than what they did in 50 years,&quot; said Uhuru. ALSO READ: Opinion: Is Opposition's fear of secret polling stations tenable? &quot;Our brothers from the Opposition are promising change. But I ask myself which change because one of them was appointed by retired President Daniel Moi as a minister when (DP) Ruto was in Form One,&quot; he said. &quot;Another one was in charge of the National Treasury in his 20s. Another one served as minister for several years as well as a prime minister. I want to ask you; what development projects did they bring to this area?&quot; he added. Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto also said NASA running mate Kalonzo Musyoka was wasting time supporting Raila. &quot;They were in Government when we competed against them in the 2013 polls. Every month we were being flown to attend ICC cases. Do you want to tell me that now that we are in Government and they are out, they will beat us? No way,&quot; said Uhuru. Mr Ruto said no one should lie to the Kamba community that they were on the ballot for the presidency, stating that the contest was between Uhuru and Raila, not the former vice president. Uhuru was accompanied on the campaign trail by National Assembly Leader of Majority Aden Duale, Health Cabinet Secretary Cleopa Mailu and Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko. Uhuru and Ruto asked the locals to vote them in for a second term to continue with their development agenda for the country. ALSO READ: Polling stations more in NASA strongholds, IEBC list shows Ruto cited free maternity care and the Last Mile power connectivity project as some of the Jubilee administration&#39;s achievements in the last four and a half years. The campaign came barely a week after the two leaders pitched tent in the larger lower Eastern region, which is perceived to be in Kalonzo&#39;s grip. The Jubilee leaders were in Kitui and Makueni last Friday in concerted efforts to gain support in the region. Besides commissioning the Sh2.2 billion Yatta Canal at Matuu, Uhuru also commissioned the upgrading of the Matuu-Ekalakala-Kanguku and Katulani-Kyasioni roads. The canal serves more than 74,000 people, including over 1,000 farmers. It has also attracted a flower firm, Flower City, which has provided employment for 400 people from the area. In their campaigns, the Jubilee leaders promised more Government jobs for the community after the polls. Senator Sonko said despite the community voting for Raila in 2013, Uhuru had appointed several people from the region to senior Government positions, including Cabinet secretary slots. Uhuru blamed low development in Ukambani on petty politics by local leaders. ALSO READ: Polling stations more in NASA strongholds, IEBC list shows The Jubilee team hit out at NASA&#39;s plan to hold a referendum to create the prime minister&#39;s position, saying the alliance was fixated on creating jobs for a few individuals instead of youths. Mr Duale claimed Raila was not prepared for the August polls and accused him of antagonising the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. &nbsp;