Al-Shabaab militants attempted to attack a police camp in Lamu Monday night hours after president Kenyatta had ordered their killing. The about 30 militants were seen loitering near Mukowe General Service Unit camp Monday night with plans to attack them. But they retreated into Boni Forest after they realized the GSU personnel there had been alerted and were waiting for a fight. Police operating in the area said they were on alert and there are fears of more attacks in the area from the gang. &quot;They were sighted near the camp with an intention to attack but retreated to the forest. There was no casualty,&quot; said an official in the area. Statement on Monday night incident in Mukowe &nbsp;A joint Boni enclave campaign and the Lamu County security Committee investigated the incident, and the findings are as follows: There was gunfire near Mukowe Town at about 1:10am and all security officers were alerted about the shooting. After further investigation, it was found that a sentry at the GSU camp heard some suspicious movement near the camp gate and decided to fire as precautionary measure. However, it should be clearly noted that there was no exchange of fire between security officers and any enemy. ALSO READ: Uhuru vows vengeance against terrorists behind recent massacres of security officers The boni enclave campaign and Lamu County Security therefore want to assure the general public that there was no attack in Mukowe Town on Monday Night. &ldquo;Lastly, we request all agencies and the media not to report unverified and alarmist information that is likely to cause fear and despondency in the region.&rdquo; Up to 18 people have been killed in the area for the last two weeks. The latest happened on Thursday when the militants killed a bodyguard to Public Works PS Mariam El Maawy, her nephew, driver and two other people in Milihoi area. The militants had killed 13 people in Jima and Pandaguo areas a week earlier. On Monday, the President ordered the terrorists be killed and buried. &quot;We shall finish them. When we get them, we will not jail but bury them&quot; he said of the terrorists who have turned Boni Forest into a playground, attacking and killing locals before retreating there. Speaking in Mpeketoni, the President told those living in areas prone to the attacks to vacate and give way for ongoing operation there. He also asked locals in Lamu County to cooperate with security officers and give information that will help get the attackers. The attacks have affected tourism, local economy and movement. A number of schools have also closed down because of the incidents. Given elections are scheduled for next month; it is still unclear if the locals will be able to vote. Electoral body have urged police to ensure there is voting on August 8. A dusk to dawn curfew has been imposed in the area as part of efforts to tame the attacks in vain. A major operation is also ongoing there.