Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago will be floored by new-comer businessman Bundotich Kiprop popularly known as &#39;Buzeki&#39;, a new survey has revealed. An opinion poll conducted by Infotrak Research and Consulting established that 54.2 per cent of the county residents would vote for Mr Buzeki, an independent candidate, if elections were held today. The opinion poll whose results were released on Friday in Nairobi established that Mr Mandago, a Jubilee Party flag-bearer has a 42.1 per cent popularity rating in the county, which is also the home of Deputy President William Ruto. According to the research that also extended to two other counties- Mombasa and Kakamega, both Governor Hassan Joho and Wycliffe Oparanya will easily retain their positions, after defeating their opponents with a large margin. Interestingly the two county bosses are both Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) Deputy Party leaders. Mr Joho has a head start as per the study in his county, with 63 per cent of the respondents involved in the survey affirming that they would re-elect him on August 8. ALSO READ: Joho, Omar contest turns ugly as elections draw near His closest rival, Jubilee&#39;s Suleiman Shahbal comes a distant second with 15.3 per cent, while Senator Hassan Omar of Wiper Democratic Movement and Nyali MP Bollo Awiti will come third and fourth at 4.8 per cent and 0.5 per cent respectively. Mr Oparanya in Kakamega County is leading with an overwhelming 68.3 per cent, with vocal area Senator Boni Khalwale who is eyeing the same gubernatorial seat on a Ford Kenya ticket placed second at 13.1 per cent. Jubilee Party&#39;s Ms. Muruli Mabel who is making a second stab for the top county seat trails Dr Khalwale at 1.1 Per cent. Infotrak Research and Consulting Business Development Manager Mary Mburu said 900 respondents were interviewed in Uasin Gishu County, 1000 in Mombasa while 1800 from Kakamenga in the study. The survey covered all the sub-counties and wards in the respective three counties.