When Andrew Thiong&rsquo;o, 24, decided to go into business, like many others in his age group, he started while still a student. &ldquo;While at Daystar University, I started a clothing business called #Nation in 2013,&rdquo; he says. It was good business as he had a ready market in his fellow students, but closer to his graduation last year, he knew he&rsquo;d have to rethink his model. That&rsquo;s when he spotted an opportunity in the mobile phones market that made more business sense. Andrew noticed that the clients who came to him with customised phone covers had used generic images from the Internet, and the quality of printing was rather poor. &ldquo;Through the experience of doing business and interacting with customers, I realised there was an opportunity there.&rdquo; First clients ALSO READ: State advertising agency gets additional funds despite missing targets In April, just before his graduation two months later, Andrew approached a friend, John Mutiso, whom he trusted and who was also interested in being an entrepreneur. Andrew pitched the idea of making high-quality customised phone cases, and John happily signed on. The next item on the list was raising capital. Together, they came up with Sh6,000, and in April 2016, set up DT Customs. &ldquo;We used the capital to make samples of the phone cases we wanted to sell and to advertise them on Facebook. With the support of family and friends, who were our first clients, we haven&rsquo;t looked back,&rdquo; says Andrew, who&rsquo;s now pursuing a master&rsquo;s degree in procurement and logistics management. &ldquo;We wanted to do something different with custom covers, and give our clients the freedom to pick something they like. We also wanted to come into the market with friendlier prices, especially for students like us (John is still at Daystar studying advertising). &ldquo;We charge Sh1,200, while most other businesses charge between Sh2,000 and Sh3,500.&rdquo; To get a custom cover, clients get in touch with DT Customs with the details of their phone model and the image they want on a case. They also send in a deposit of Sh700. &ldquo;The image has to be clear. Once we receive the deposit and artwork, we begin to work on the case. We take a maximum of two days to deliver,&rdquo; says Andrew. Clients OK the final product, pay the remaining Sh500 and then receive their custom case. New markets DT currently outsources the printing to a local firm, and gets the cases from a supplier who imports them from China. In a month, Andrew says DT earns an average of Sh30,000 in profit, but if their marketing is aggressive, they can earn this cash in two weeks. All their advertising is done on social media and through referrals. However, like any other business, DT Customs has its share of challenges. One big one is that with both Andrew and John being students, balancing studying and business can get difficult, &ldquo;but we somehow manage&rdquo;. &ldquo;Clients can also be challenging sometimes. You can have someone send you the artwork they want, but once the work is done, they say they&rsquo;re not happy with the decision they made,&rdquo; says Andrew. The other big challenge is logistics. Because their advertising is done through Facebook and Instagram, and shared with a wide audience, DT Customs captures the interest of clients outside Kenya. However, the business has yet to develop the logistical capacity to serve this market. &ldquo;We had someone from the US get in touch with us and ask for 100 covers. While meeting the demand was easy, getting the cases to her proved difficult, so we had to let the business go.&rdquo; Nevertheless, Andrew and John plan to expand DT Customs to other countries, and diversify into branding other products. &ldquo;Many young people don&rsquo;t have jobs and I would like to urge them to get creative and start doing something,&rdquo; says Andrew.