The National Super Alliance (NASA) has challenged the Government to protect its flag bearer Raila Odinga and other Opposition leaders. Siaya Senator James Orengo (above) said NASA would petition the Inspector General of Police (IG) Joseph Boinnet over the suspicious mission of 60 alleged security agents some of whom they claimed had trailed Raila. NASA claimed that the suspicious activities of the alleged security personnel were putting Mr Raila&#39;s life at risk. Mr Orengo, the co-chair of the NASA coordinating committee, yesterday said they were disturbed by information indicating that 60 Administration Police officers were secretly undergoing training at Katulo in Wajir County for an undisclosed assignment. Orengo challenged President Uhuru Kenyatta, Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery and Mr Boinnet to come clean on the exact purpose and mission of the officers. Trailed Raila ALSO READ: Opinion: Is Opposition's fear of secret polling stations tenable? He alleged the said officers had been training for two months now under the leadership of a retired lieutenant deputised by a National Intelligence Service officer. Orengo claimed before the said officers went to Wajir, they were trained at Kahawa military barracks in Nairobi. He alleged eight of the recruits were released and relocated to Kiambu on unspecified mission, coinciding with Raila&#39;s campaigns in the region. &quot;We have information that prior to the eight officers&#39; assignment, a number of their colleagues had from time to time shadowed and trailed Raila and the co-principals in their daily political activities,&quot; he claimed. &quot;Lately, we have noticed some suspicious looking officers who are not assigned to Raila and not his security detail. Why would the NASA presidential candidate have extra surveillance of people not officially assigned to him?&quot; Efforts to get a comment from Boinnet were futile, as he didn&#39;t answer calls or respond to short messages. ALSO READ: Polling stations more in NASA strongholds, IEBC list shows