Jubilee Party candidate for Machakos Woman Representative Agnes Kavindu claims that her life is in danger. Ms Kavindu has consequently appealed to the Government to provide her with a bodyguard, and also wants police to secure her political rallies in the county. The aspirant told journalists after addressing a series of rallies in Masinga Constituency at the weekend that several vehicles have been trailing her campaign convoy, dropping leaflets aimed at disrupting her political meetings. &quot;For the past three days there are vehicles which have been trailing me everywhere I go. I would like police to get to the bottom of the matter by investigating owners of these vehicles and the motive behind their actions,&quot; she said. She has the registration numbers of the vehicles. &quot;I have already reported this matter to Katangi Police Post and want police to conduct speedy investigations,&quot; Kavindu said. She added: &quot;I do not understand why anyone would want to trail me with intent to interrupt my campaigns because I have&nbsp;no problem, even with my opponents. I call upon Machakos residents not to be used by politicians to engage in lawlessness,&quot; she added. ALSO READ: Governor Ali Roba dismisses council of elders outfits as baseless unit Kavindu further claimed that several people in her campaign team have been called by unknown people. &quot;Strangers have also been calling my people, asking where I will hold my campaign rallies and that information too is with the police,&quot; she said. Elsewhere, Kangundo parliamentary candidate for Jubilee Party, Rose Wambua has asked residents to turn up in large numbers to welcome President Uhuru Kenyatta during his tour of the region. According to sources, Uhuru will first address residents of Ekalakala and Matuu towns in Yatta Constituency before flying to Kangundo DEB Primary School grounds where he will address another rally. He will then proceed to Kenol to inaugurate Kenol-Ngoleni road in Kathiani Constituency before proceeding to Machakos town where he will address a major rally at Kenyatta Stadium. &nbsp; &nbsp; ALSO READ: Mombasa County to disburse Sh156 million bursaries