Raila Odinga&#39;s presidential campaign got a boost in the North Rift region after a section of sitting and former MPs formally announced their support for NASA and launched a caravan to popularise its manifesto. The leaders, including former close allies of Deputy President William Ruto, declared in Eldoret, Monday, that they would intensify NASA campaigns in the region. Led by former Ruto ally and JP director who was also URP Chief Executive Officer David Koech,&nbsp;the leaders said they would change the political narrative in the region to ensure NASA triumphs in the August polls. &quot;It is only in the agenda of NASA manifesto that challenges facing farmers in the North Rift and other issues facing the ordinary Kenyans will be addressed. Our opponents in JP have dismissed this manifesto, yet it comes with solutions faced by citizens at the grassroots level,&quot; said Koech, who is also a former Mosop MP. The leaders, who vowed to dislodge JP from power and ensure victory for Raila, included MP for Chesumei Elijah Lagat, former Kenyan Ambassador to Australia and MP for Emgwen Stephen Tarus, former Cabinet Minister John Cheruiyot (Aldai), former MPs Joseph Misoi (Eldoret South), David Sudi (Marakwet West), Jesse Maiz (Eldoret South), Francis Mutwol (Marakwet West), ODM devolution secretary Kipkorir Menjo, Songok and Isaac Letting; the latter are ODM candidates for Turbo and Nandi Hills respectively, among others. &quot;The official launch of the NASA presidential caravan will market the coalition&#39;s manifesto that clearly brings hope to all Kenyans. We urge residents to embrace change and vote for Raila who will transform the economy,&quot; added Koech, who read the resolutions. ALSO READ: Police should maintain, not break the laws He stated that if NASA takes over, the new government would ensure access to affordable inputs on time and the National Cereals and Produce Board would open buying centres and reach out to farmers during the harvesting season. The leaders said tea prices would be harmonised to ensure equity in earnings.