Bungoma County Governor Ken Lusaka has termed as &quot;empty and hollow&quot; the promises made recently to Mt Elgon residents by his opponents. Speaking to the press at his home in Webuye this morning, Mr Lusaka said a governor has no powers to pick a county assembly speaker. &quot;You cannot come up with lies that you will appoint a Sabaot to be incharge of the Bungoma County Assembly yet you have no such powers. My competitor should eat the humble pie out of the fact that he had previously hoodwinked the people of Mt Elgon that the deputy governor&#39;s seat would go to them,&quot; said Mr Lusaka. On Monday,Ford-Kenya gurbenatorial aspirant Mr Wangamati told a political rally in Chepkurkur, Mt Elgon that he would appoint a Sabaot to be the speaker of the county assembly besides recruiting more Sabaots in his government if he wins the gubernatorial race in August. &quot;I want to have a more inclusive government unlike the one of (Governor) Lusaka,&quot; Mr Wangamati said. According to Mr Lusaka, Mt Elgon has been transformed, and will continue enjoying the fruits of devolution due to his administration&#39;s desire to open up all areas of Bungoma County. He said Mt Elgon had for a long time been neglected yet the region has huge potential, particularly in agriculture and tourism. ALSO READ: Governor Lusaka to face IEBC over election chaos &quot;It is for this reason that I have opted to retain my running-mate-Hillary Chongwony. I would want to see more of the region&#39;s roads modernised. Homes and institutions connected to power as well as well as more health facilities launched,&quot; Mr Lusaka said. Moreover, the Bungoma County Boss warned the people of Mt Elgon against associating with political tourists who are out there to exploit them.&nbsp; &quot;Sabaots know too well where their hearts beat. They know whom they will be voting for next month. As a matter of fact, they appreciate that Ford-Kenya is just after their votes then dump them. I do not want to see such a sad thing under my watch,&quot; he said.