The National Super Alliance (NASA) running mate on Monday led a Wiper delegation to his Kitui County turf where he said he is fully aware of a scheme by Jubilee to use chiefs to buy voters. &quot;We are aware chiefs are being coerced to buy people&#39;s ID cards. Buying voters is an electoral fraud. The electoral commission should intervene,&quot; Kalonzo said while addressing a rally at Mwingi Gardens. Kalonzo&#39;s tour came days after his former ally and affluent businessman Peter Muthoka and National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, held meetings in Kitui and Mwingi towns. Muthoka promised &#39;Jubilee agents&#39; money to deliver votes to President Uhuru Kenyatta. However, Kalonzo has hinted at an elaborate plan to ring fence the region for NASA. &quot;Let Jubilee know that the home owner is back. I do not want jokes in my region, especially in Kitui,&quot; he said. He also warned Wiper MPs who defected to Jubilee that they will come down with a &quot;thud.&quot; He was accompanied by governors Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni), Julius Malombe (Kitui), Nathif Jamah (Garissa), Wiper Deputy Party leader Farah Maalim and a couple of MPs. Kalonzo at the same time laughed off at the projects the government is boasting of launching saying most of them were the Grand Coalition flagship initiatives. &quot;If you marry a pregnant woman, there is nothing to take pride in because eventually you become a step-father. The unga revolution will send them packing,&quot; he said. ALSO READ: Who do the poll numbers favour? Kalonzo has directed the aspirants to campaign as a team to deliver majority votes for the Wiper Party and to secure Ukambani from &#39;Jubilee invaders&#39;. In Makueni, Governor Kibwana has already started scouring the county in a caravan comprising his deputy Adelina Mwau, Women Rep Rose Museo, Senator Mutula Jnr and a host of MPs and aspirants. The same is to be replicated in Kitui where Governor Julius Malombe is expected to move out with aspirants Enoch Wambua (Senate),&nbsp; Irene Kasalu (Women Rep) and parliamentary contestants. Machakos County gubernatorial candidate Wavinya Ndeti and her running mate Peter Mathuki among other contestants will be hitting the road to robustly lobby for the party.