A man committed suicide after his wife gave birth to twins in Elgeyo Marakwet County. The 34-year-old man drowned after he jumped into a well at his Katalel home at the weekend. Since his wife gave birth to the twins two weeks ago, the man is said have complained that the responsibility of taking care of his family was weighing him down. Katelel West assistant chief Luka Ruto said it may have become difficult for the man to provide for his family. &quot;He jumped into a well in his compound and was already dead by the time area residents arrived to rescue him. He had no mental problems,&quot; he said. He said police officers from Iten took the body to the Iten County Referral Hospital mortuary for postmortem. ALSO READ: Separated twins finally leave hospital after nearly 3 years &quot;The man had not quarrelled with his wife and neighbours,&quot; he said, adding that police were investigating the case. The incident, which shocked many of the area residents, comes barely a day after twins in Bungoma died after their mother was banished by her father-in-law, who claimed that the babies would bring bad luck to his family. Man lynched Ruto called on residents to seek help from neighbours and relatives when they have domestic problems. Elsewhere in Eldoret, a man was lynched at Pioneer Estate after he and his accomplices injured a woman as they stole her phone and other valuables. His two accomplices escaped lynching after they were rescued by police officers. The public cornered the robbers as they tried to escapeand attacked them. Police officers arrived at the scene and dispersed the incensed mob. The other two sustained serious injuries and were rushed to a nearby hospital. The residents of Pioneer Estate complained that insecurity was on the rise, with women and schoolgirls being the main targets. &quot;Women and girls are raped on their way to work and school. We are tired of these criminals and are willing to do anything to protect ourselves,&quot; said a resident. They also claimed that police frequently released suspected criminals without charging them in court, therefore allowing them to return to terrorise them. They asked the police to beef up security in the area. [Fred Kibor and Nelson Opuya]&nbsp;