Jubilee Party won&#39;t take part in talks on printing of ballot papers, the President and his deputy have declared. Speaking in Narok on Tuesday, President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto said they would not sit in any tender committee meetings to decide who will print and supply ballot papers. The move is likely to cause further disagreements in the ballot papers printing saga that a three-judge bench stopped last week. Uhuru warned the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) against being drawn into a conspiracy to deny Kenyans their right to vote, saying all Jubilee wanted was nothing short of Kenyans going to the polls on August 8. Speaking at Olmekenyu trading centre, Mr Ruto said the role of choosing who prints ballot papers belongs strictly to IEBC. Uhuru said the Opposition was not ready for elections and was using all means possible to derail the polls. ALSO READ: How Biwott fought with Uhuru over Kanu leadership &quot;We are ready to accept the decision made at the ballot by Kenyans but we will not accept threats and manipulation by our competitors (NASA),&quot; the Head of State said. &quot;The tenderpreneurs who wrote the NASA manifesto have now written to IEBC to be given the tender for ballot papers,&quot; Ruto claimed. The DP said Jubilee did not care who would supply the papers. &quot;We will not sit in any meeting on tenders because we do not have a printing press of our own or tenderprenueurs,&quot; said the DP. He urged the Judiciary to avoid being misused by the Opposition to scuttle the election process. Ruto said the many cases the Opposition had lined up in the courts were designed to deny Kenyans their fundamental right to vote. Uhuru assured Kenyans that the Government would ensure there is peace in the country during and after the elections. He said Jubilee Party was formed to unite Kenyans. The President called on residents to shun leaders who fan violence. ALSO READ: How Biwott fought with Uhuru over Kanu leadership Burning churches &quot;Displacing people from their homes, burning churches and schools is the work of the devil,&quot; said the President. The deputy president also took on his nemesis, Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto, for trying to woo Rift Valley voters to NASA. Ruto, who addressed residents in his Kalenjin dialect, accused Raila Odinga of presiding over the eviction of members of the Kipsigis community from Mau forest, saying the Jubilee administration had since lifted the caveat.