Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto has said there is a plot by Jubilee government to rig the August 8 general elections using the provincial administration. Speaking in Rongai Constituency, Nakuru County the Chama Cha Mashinani party leader said the chiefs and deputy county commissioners are collecting voters&rsquo; details in an exercise whose purpose has not been made public. Ruto said some of the chiefs have reportedly been spotted compiling a list of voters comprising their names, identification numbers and polling stations where they are registered. &quot;The provincial administrators are collecting signatures and ID numbers for 50 voters from each polling station in a number of counties. This could be one of the strategy the Jubilee government is planning to use to ensure they win unfairly,&quot; said Ruto. Ruto called on the government to clear the air as the exercise has raised suspicion even among those who submitted their vital registration details adding that they were not informed why they were being told to participate. &quot;50 votes per polling station means a lot for every political seat. If this is not a plan by Jubilee to have these people vote for them prior to the actual polls the government should clearly and publicly state the purpose for such records,&quot; said Ruto. ALSO READ: Election fever now grips consumers The governor urged the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to ensure there is transparency in the tendering for printing of the presidential ballots for the August 8 general elections. He called on the commission to award the tender to companies that have no links with any political leader to ensure they are trusted by Kenyans and the candidates that they are capable of conducting free and fair elections. &quot;It is good that through the court we learnt that the tendering did not follow the due process. The Al Ghurair company has a history with the Jubilee administration which made other candidates feel insecure,&quot; he said. He drummed support for candidates who are seeking election under his CCM party and other affiliates of the National Super Alliance terming it as the only coalition that reflects the face of Kenya. &quot;From the diversity of candidates that NASA has fronted for various seats in Nakuru it is clear that it is the only outfit that can give the county a cosmopolitan outlook in leadership,&rdquo; said the CCM leader.