&nbsp; &nbsp; IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) has indefinitely suspended all political campaigns for the Marsabit gubernatorial seat. IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati issued the directive on Friday, after meeting Governor Ukur Yatani and his rival Mohamed Mohamud Ali, whose supporters clashed on Wednesday. Three people were shot and wounded in chaos that ensued in town, shortly after President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto had addressed the rally. Chebukati, the chairman of the IEBC Code of Conduct Enforcement Committee had summoned Yatani who is defending his seat on Frontier Alliance Party ticket after quitting ODM and main challenger Mr Ali the Jubilee Party flag-bearer. &quot;We have agreed with the two leaders that all the campaigns in the county will be suspended until Monday next week, when as a committee we shall issue a decision, after hearing both parties,&quot; said the IEBC boss. ALSO READ: IEBC puts off Kitutu Chache South parliamentary election During the session held in camera, that was also attended by MPs Roba Duba (Moyale), who is also the Frontier Alliance Party Chairman Chachu Ganya (North Horr) and Joseph Lekuton (Laisamis), it was directed that that investigations be conducted over the incident. Speaking to journalists after the meeting with the IEBC committee, Governor Yatani and his competitor said they are both in agreement with the directive, adding that they will duly comply with it. &quot;I will suspend our campaigns until next week as ordered, as we await the decision by IEBC. My team and I will utilize the break to reflect on why the unfortunate incident happened and find ways of forestalling such episodes,&quot; explained Yatani. The County Chief downplayed fears that the suspension which comes less than 10 days before the general election, will affect his performance in the poll, emphasizing that he has campaigned adequately in the past few months. &ldquo;It will not affect me in any way, as I have been campaigning hard in the past two months,&quot; added the Governor, who appealed to the county residents to maintain peace before and after the elections. However Ali admitted that the suspension will affect him. ALSO READ: IEBC: We are ready for elections &quot;Of course this decision affects my programs. I was supposed to be somewhere tomorrow, on Sunday and even Monday. Coming here really affected a lot of my programs and I am not endowed with a lot of resources,&quot; he said. Mr Duba said the Marsabit leaders will not allow politics to divide them, noting that his party he leads advocates for peaceful co-existence.