Leaders from all political divides have mourned the death of&nbsp;former minister Nicholas Biwott, who passed on today. Led by President Uhuru Kenyatta, the leaders described Biwott as a dedicated civil servant who spent his life selflessly serving the nation in various capacities. President Uhuru, in his message of condolence, said&nbsp;the diligence and intelligence of the ex-minister&nbsp;saw him shine during his tenure in the government. &nbsp;&quot;These are the qualities that he put at the disposal of the Presidents he served, and of his countrymen. They were balanced by his private warmth, his wit, his attention to detail, and his love of family,&quot; said President Uhuru. President Uhuru praised his devotion to the education of young Kenyans saying in his lifetime, he funded many scholarships, and never ceased to insist that young men and women should take every opportunity to improve themselves. He noted that this, was attributed to the humble beginnings of the fallen leader in Elgeyo Marakwet County which is why he spent decades building schools, hospitals, among other kind of development projects he could. ALSO READ: Raila to unveil book on his vision for Kenya &quot;Now that he has gone to rest, may his generosity never be forgotten. I pray that God will comfort and strengthen his family at this difficult time, especially his wife and children,&quot; the President added. National Super Alliance (NASA) Presidential Candidate Raila Odinga remembered Biwott as a reformist. &quot;Hon Biwott played a central role in the formation of the modern Kenya State at a critical moment in our history when it was vital to have every hand on deck to ensure that Kenya&#39;s first transfer of power went smoothly and ensured national unity at a very tense and trying time,&quot; said Raila. He added: &quot;With so many others, I share their loss and we are praying that this solidarity will help give them strength to cope with their loss.&quot; His point man in the NASA camp Musalia Mudavadi also eulogized the late ex minister as one of the least publicity seeking politicians despite his &#39;larger than life&#39; personality. &quot;Biwott was a different kind of politician. Together with the late GG Kariuki, they represent the passing of the first generation of young technocrats at independence who later graduated into imminent political leaders of their time,&quot; said Musalia. Former President Daniel arap Moi said he has known Biwott since 1950s both being leaders from Rift Valley at then. ALSO READ: Raila to unveil book on his vision for Kenya He said Biwott who served in various ministerial positions in his government was a dedicated public servant, an astute businessman and a philanthropist who initiated community projects to alleviate the suffering of the people he represented of Keiyo. Mzee Moi who described Biwott as dependable friend said his public service had an impact to the Nation. He prayed to God to give the family of the late courage to bear the loss of their loved one. Baringo Senator Gideon Moi said he learnt of the death of Biwott with shock and disbelief. He described the late as a man of few words who made a big impact on the affairs of the country. He said Biwott was a family friend and his death was a big blow to all those who knew him beyond public sphere. Gideon said the country had lost an industrious man whose footprints are implanted in almost all sectors. He prayed to God to give the family necessary fortitude to bear the loss. Energy Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter expressed the shock on learning on the death of the late 77 year old noting that he once served in his current capacity during his tenure as minister. ALSO READ: Raila&rsquo;s latest onslaught against poll agency over relaying of results &quot;I have learnt with tremendous sadness the passing away of our leader and friend Hon Nicholas Biwott. Total man leaves behind a rich legacy,&quot; said Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, the home town of the late. Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto also took to social media to eulogize the fallen leader: &quot;My deepest condolences to my former cabinet colleague, socio economic development dynamo and National Vision Party (NVP) founder Hon Nicholas Kiprono Biwott.&quot; Council of Governors Chair Josphat Nanok, showered the fallen leader with praises saying he was a distinguished public servant, who served in Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, Daniel Arap Moi and Mwai Kibaki&#39;s Governments from 1965 since he joined the civil service as a District Officer. &quot;Hon Biwott was an astute politician, prominent businessman, and farmer and&nbsp;an educationist, whose acts of kindness touched many families in the Rift Valley and the country,&quot; said Nanok. Apart from serving in the Ministry of Trade, and Energy under Former President Daniel Moi regime, Biwott&nbsp;was also&nbsp;the Keiyo South Member of Parliament for over two decades.