Poor of Internet connectivity, forgetting passwords and inadequate computers are some of the challenges teachers are facing during the implementation of performance appraisals. In addition to these, bad attitude of some teachers towards the exercise and clogging of the network in the run up to the deadline have also been cited as key challenges that must be addressed as the teachers employer implements the performance tools. The details emerged during the ongoing performance contracting and teacher performance appraisal and development (TPAD) evaluation being undertaken by Teachers Service Commission (TSC). The exercise aims at assessing the successes and challenges experienced in last years process. The teachers&#39; employer is undertaking a one-week performance monitoring of public schools to push for quality education. A plan of action seen by the Standard reveals TSC senior staffs have all been dispatched across the country to monitor the implementation of performance contracts and appraisals for teachers. ALSO READ: TSC says forum a waste of funds as teachers feted The programme that started Monday will run till Friday. The exercise was&nbsp; on Wednesday conducted in Uasin Gishu, Kericho, Isiolo, Bungoma, Nyeri, Tharaka Nithi, Machakos, Kilifi, Homa bay, Wajir, Tana River, Kiambu and Nairobi counties. Today, the TSC programme shows that Elgeyo Marakwet, Bomet, Marsabit, Kakamega, Nyeri, Meru, Makueni, Voi, Nyamira, Wajir, Tana River and Lamu Counties will be covered. And on Tommorrow, Nandi, Narok, Marsabit, Vihiga, Muranga, Meru, Kajiado, Taita Taveta, Kisii, Wajir, Tana River and Lamu counties will also be covered. TSC Commissioners and County Directors who spoke to the Standard said that some teachers forget their online passwords, delaying the filing process of the performance tools. &quot;Resetting the passwords takes time and in some cases fluctuating Internet makes it difficult for the teachers to comply in time,&quot; said a TSC County Director. Some schools do not have adequate computers and this pushes teachers to use cyber cafes, leading to loss of privacy. ALSO READ: Good salaries come with more work, teachers told And the month leading to the filing deadlines, TSC Commissioners found that online portals are jammed due to congested usage, leading to missed deadlines. The challenges are some the issues that emerged in the ongoing assessment by TSC.