National Super Alliance (NASA) presidential flag bearer Raila Odinga has alleged there are plans by President Uhuru Kenyatta to cling to power after losing in the August 8 polls. Raila claimed the President had undertaken mobilisation and training of officers from the police, Kenya Wildlife Service, Kenya Forest Service, prisons and the army on a scale witnessed only in dictatorships. He told Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto to stop peddling lies that NASA was not prepared for the General Election and wanted&nbsp;&#39;nusu mkate&#39; (half a loaf, in reference to a coalition) government, stressing that they were ready &quot;like yesterday&quot;. &quot;President Kenyatta appears to be preparing to reject election results because he now knows he will lose,&quot; said Raila. &quot;We have seen over the years the increasing militarisation of the Kenyan state and the President&nbsp;moving around the country in military fatigues. As we speak, Uhuru is marshalling all armed forces to deal with challenges that only he knows.&quot; Credible polls ALSO READ: Why NASA government is best bet for Kenya Addressing journalists at Capitol Hill in Nairobi, Raila emphasised the need for free, fair and credible polls, which he said would only be achieved in a free and peaceful exercise. &quot;Kenyans want transparent elections and will accept nothing less. I have said many times that I will accept the election outcome if done in a credible manner. I should not shout from the rooftop to state my position,&quot; he said. &quot;Likewise, using State machinery, including the security organs, will lead to rigging the elections. When you hear the President and DP chest thumping that they won in 2013 when (they were) not in Government, what about now that they are in Government? &quot;This is a loaded statement. What do (Uhuru and Ruto) intend to do, and will they use their position to retain power?&quot; He faulted the President for consistently claiming that NASA wanted elections postponed and that they were interested in a coalition. &quot;These lies have gone hand in hand with massive preparation of security forces for deployment in selected areas, supposedly in readiness for election chaos. We respect the rule of law and the Constitution. Jubilee should not overthrow our Constitution,&quot; he said. He also challenged the electoral commission to rectify anomalies in the voter register, even as he exuded confidence that the commission would deliver on August 8. ALSO READ: Why NASA government is best bet for Kenya &quot;It is the duty and responsibility of IEBC to ensure that all players are satisfied with their preparations. There is still time. We should not doubt the ICT infrastructure, for instance.&quot;