The Economic Freedom Party (EFP) has accused Jubilee supporters and followers of Mandera Governor Ali Roba of causing violence during President Uhuru Kenyatta&#39;s campaigns in the county last weekend. The party said it had recorded a statement with the police about the incident at the Takaba Police station and filed a complaint with the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC). The party accused its main rival of intimidation. &quot;They are using fear to intimidate our supporters and create havoc in the area. This is clearly against the code of conduct as envisioned in the IEBC guidelines,&quot; reads part of the complaint signed by EFP Chairman Isaack Abey Hassan. In the complaint to IEBC, EFP is asking the electoral agency to stamp its authority and censure Mr Roba and his team for the mayhem and that the governor takes responsibility for injuries and damages. According to media reports, Roba had cautioned non-Jubilee members against attending Uhuru&#39;s rally. ALSO READ: IEBC remains optimistic over use of technology The&nbsp; Governor is reported to have sad: &quot;We shall be hosting the President and his Deputy William Ruto as Jubilee but we are aware of EFP&#39;s plan to attend the rally. I dare them to come.&quot; Roba is seeking re-election as governor of Mandera, but is facing a difficult political terrain having lost favour with the region&#39;s council of elders, which is backing Noor and EFP candidates. During the rally on Saturday, both Uhuru and his Deputy Ruto steered clear of endorsing Roba, asking the electorate to make their own decision. &quot;It is up to you people to decide who will be your governor, senator, MP, woman representative and others, but vote for me as your president,&quot; said Uhuru. The President and his deputy read the signs that support for Noor, whose party is supporting Uhuru&#39;s re-election, is gaining momentum. Uhuru condemned the violence that marred his second campaign visit to Mandera. ALSO READ: Police seek assurance from IEBC on voter kits