President Uhuru Kenyatta during Jubilee Party&rsquo;s rally in Moyale. Photo: PSCU President Uhuru Kenyatta Wednesday called on Samburu residents to elect candidates in both Jubilee Party and Kanu, saying both parties supported his re-election. Uhuru asked candidates vying on the two parties&#39; tickets in the region to work together for the benefit of the people. &quot;I ask you to work with all these leaders. I know we have those aligned to Jubilee and those aligned to Kanu. They are all your leaders. Work with all of them,&quot; he said. Addressing residents at Kenyatta Stadium in Maralal town during his vote-hunting tour in Samburu County, the Head of State did not push for a Jubilee &#39;six-piece&#39; voting pattern. Second tour This was the President&#39;s second tour of the pastoral county this year. He commissioned the tarmacking of the Maralal-Rumuruti road. ALSO READ: Ruto&rsquo;s remarks on TJRC Report are callous and fail to move us forward He said work would begin from Maralal to Rumuruti. &quot;I have asked the contractor to begin from this side. You will soon have the road tarmacked,&quot; said Uhuru. He also gave out 2,400 title deeds for Maralal town including 10 group ranches. &quot;Last time you gave me just a handful of votes, you played me. I beg you to not forget me this time,&quot; he said. In 2013, the President got 42 per cent of Samburu votes. Using the tour to highlight his administration&#39;s successes, he said if given another term, every woman who gives birth would be issued with a National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) cover for one year. ALSO READ: IEBC didn't have to wait this long to explain role of security agents He said the Jubilee administration had made maternal health services free and called upon residents to &quot;give birth and fill the world&quot;. Contrary to the expectations of residents, Uhuru did not address the Laikipia pasture issue and the ongoing security operations. Deputy President William Ruto asked the residents to vote for Uhuru so that he could complete the projects he had started in the region. He accused National Super Alliance (NASA) leader Raila Odinga of inciting Kenyans. &quot;I urge you to support and vote for Uhuru Kenyatta and leave the other guy alone. Do you want development or riddles?&quot; Ruto asked. There are two factions of political leadership in Samburu, with the Jubilee party faction led by Samburu Governor Moses Lenolkulal and Samburu West MP Lati Lelelit. The Kanu faction is led by Samburu Woman Representative Maison Leshoomo and Nominated Senator Naisula Lesuuda. ALSO READ: Three shot and wounded in chaos after Uhuru&rsquo;s Marsabit rally Both factions support Uhuru&#39;s re election. His administration Uhuru has said his administration has changed the face of Kenya. The President said the Jubilee administration has a genuine concern to solve the problems facing the people of Marsabit County, whom he said were neglected in the past. Uhuru was speaking after commissioning the construction of a modern stadium in Marsabit town. He also opened the Isiolo-Moyale road, which was constructed at a cost of Sh42 billion. &quot;Who can tell us that the Jubilee administration has not worked for the people of this region?&quot; asked the President. He instructed the Ministry of Infrastructure to tarmac all the roads in the town. He said the Government had funded the upgrading of Marsabit Hospital at a cost of Sh800 million and that residents no longer needed to travel to Nairobi to seek specialised medical treatment. ALSO READ: Uhuru pleads with Nyeri and Murang&rsquo;a voters not to let him down The Head of State, who was accompanied by Ruto, said the investments in the northern region were part of his administration&#39;s work to lay down the foundation for progress. The two leaders were scheduled to address another rally in Maralal, Samburu County, later in the day. [email&#160;protected]