A local hotel chain plans to open a new Sh2.5 billion five-star facility in Nairobi&rsquo;s Hurligham area next year. Sun Africa Hotels Managing Director Rahul Sood said the firm&rsquo;s decision to expand its portfolio was influenced by Kenya&rsquo;s continued high ranking and popularity as a long-haul destination. &ldquo;As a Kenyan brand, we aim to create employment for our people as well as bring a world class facility to the local market. We also took the decision to have a new flagship premium property within the capital city, whose fortunes continue to grow by the day,&rsquo;&rsquo; he told Weekend Business. He said the move to put up the new hotel was because &ldquo;this is our home and the focus largely remains to grow and develop Kenya&rsquo;s own economy&rdquo;. The will have 122 rooms and 380 square metres of conference space, advanced technology, spa and pool among the other features. Constant upgrade Mr Sood said they are not just focusing on expansion in Kenya but also to open hotels in Dubai, the larger East African region and Zimbabwe. &ldquo;As investors in the hospitality industry, constant upgrade and investments remains prudent,&rdquo; said the CEO. He said they lay emphasis on human resource and labour development hence target to equip their staff with the best available training available. &ldquo;We continue to recruit and train our staff to be among the best not only in Kenya and Africa but across the globe,&rsquo;&rsquo; he said. The 39 year-old CEO is an experienced manager with more than 16 years in the industry. Sun Africa Hotels owns the Keekorok Safari Lodge, Lake Naivasha Country Club, Kiboko Luxury Camp and the new Lake Baringo Club. It has also branched out into hotel management with the a brand, SUN 101 and has signed up their first client, a three-star hotel in Nairobi. &ldquo;More signings are expected to be announced soon,&rsquo;&rsquo; said Mr Sood. Another project in the works includes the Kiboko Luxury Camp in the Maasai Mara where the hotel chain is building a luxury tented camp. The hotel chain dates back to 1927 and was one of the first establishments in Africa offering bush and safari holidays. It aims to create refined hotels in attractive destinations by blending with local cultures. The firm is a member of Preferred Hotels &amp; Resorts as well as Eco Tourism Kenya, with a collection of seven properties so far. The various properties have previously received accolades in the last decade under the World Luxury Hotels Awards, Trip Advisor and Booking.com awards. &lsquo;&rsquo;Sun Africa and its brands have a total of 45 wins since its 2010 undertaking as management. It was voted the best hotel management company in Africa for the third year in a row,&rsquo;&rsquo; said Mr Sood. It was also awarded the prestigious Haute Grandeur Awards for Sovereign Suites, a luxury hotel in Nairobi. Sovereign Suites was recognised for the exemplary service extended to guests.