With just one day before the official campaign period begins, Jubilee and NASA, the two main protagonists in the August 8 poll, have lined up point men to boost the voter turnout on Election Day. While NASA has picked on many seasoned politicians, Jubilee Party&rsquo;s point men cut across political parties aligned to it, even in areas that are considered opposition strongholds. Speaking to Saturday Standard yesterday Musalia Mudavadi, the chairman of the National Alliance Campaign Coordinating Organ, said their intention was to get teams that would ensure more people turn out to vote, and reduce Jubilee&rsquo;s influence in areas they were perceived to be strong. &ldquo;Given the way Jubilee has mismanaged the country, there are few areas they can consider their strongholds,&rdquo; said Mudavadi. Among those NASA has listed as its point men are Isaac Ruto, the coalition&rsquo;s summit member and Bomet governor, Kipruto arap Kirwa (fomer Agriculture minister), Farah Maalim (former Deputy Speaker), Ahmed Abdullahi (Wajir Governor), Koigi Wa Wamwere (former Assistant minister), Kirugi Mukindia (former Cabinet minister), David Nkedienye (Kajiado governor) and Narok West MP Patrick Ntutu. &ldquo;The point men will help us localise the message of hope that the coalition will be giving to Kenyans,&rdquo; Mudavadi said. ALSO READ: NASA unveils city team Uhuru&rsquo;s brigade Jubilee has also picked a team to drive the party&rsquo;s campaign. These include National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale, Kiraitu Murungi (Meru senator), Ken Lusaka (Bungoma governor), Gideon Mung&rsquo;aro (Kilifi North MP), Charles Nyachae (former CIC chairman), Joyce Laboso (Deputy Speaker and Sotik MP), Joe Mutambu (Mwingi Central MP) and James Rege (Karachuonyo MP). Yesterday, Raphael Tuju, who heads the Jubilee secretariat, said they would be deploying their teams in places they consider swing votes areas or where the opposition has lost influence. &ldquo;You will see Jubilee in every nook and cranny of the country. Our agents will help Uhuru ask for votes across the regions after he has presented his papers to the IEBC on Monday,&rdquo; said Tuju. Epid duel Jubilee has set its sights on bagging 11 million votes and securing a first-round win, while NASA says it is confident 10 million people will vote for its flagbearer Raila Odinga. Raila will present his nomination papers to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission on Monday after which NASA will hold a rally at the Jacaranda Grounds in Eastlands, Nairobi. In the coming weeks, it is expected that politicians who wield influence in Jubilee and NASA will work with the agents appointed by their political parties to drum up support for their flabearers. ALSO READ: DP Ruto blasts NASA as Jubilee steps up raid on Coast Some of the point men have been assigned to deliver a specified number of votes. For instance, Kiraitu says he hopes to marshal most the 712,378 registered voters to back Uhuru&rsquo;s re-election bid. Intense campaigns &ldquo;Uhuru can sleep comfortably knowing that together with my team, I will knock on every door in the county and ensure that I deliver over 98 per cent of the votes,&rdquo; said Kiraitu. Some of those in the Jubilee team have, however, acknowledged that they expect some resistance in their attempt to win support from opposition strongholds. Bungoma Governor Ken Lusaka says although there will be some resistance, the tide may turn in Jubilee&rsquo;s favour. Lusaka will be trying to get some votes from the 559,897 Ford Kenya supporters in an area where NASA summit leader and Senator Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula has immense influence. Jubilee also believes it has made significant inroads in the Coast region and has made several forays into the area including, Thursday&rsquo;s trip by Uhuru and his deputy William Ruto to the region. However, NASA has tasked Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and Senator Hassan Omar to ensure the region remains an opposition stronghold. The three politicians have been assigned to thwart a political assault by Jubilee&rsquo;s handymen led by Kilifi North MP Mung&rsquo;aro, Mombasa governor candidate Suleiman Shahbal and Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya. On Thursday at the Coast, the Jubilee team hosted Uhuru and Ruto at the Karisa Maitha Grounds in Kilifi and in Lunga Lunga. But it is the North Eastern counties that seem be playing out as unpredictable swing areas. The battle for the Garissa parliamentary seat pitting Duale and Maalim is a clear pointer to this. Chipped away ALSO READ: Jubilee will regret political consequences of maize crisis Whereas Uhuru and Ruto will be relying on Duale to coordinate the delivery of the region&rsquo;s 456,780 votes, NASA is fronting Farah, his arch-rival, together with Wajir governor Ahmed Abdullahi to marshal the numbers for the opposition coalition. The Majority Leader, who also chairs the Somali Parliamentary Group, has enjoyed influence among Jubilee supporters in North Eastern for a long time. However, the launch of the recent Economic Freedoms Party in Mandera recently chipped away some of his clout in the region&rsquo;s three counties. Farah says Jubilee has no reason to ask for votes from the Somali community which has continued to be marginalised. &ldquo;We will tell the people how their government has mistreated them and promise them a better future which will indeed come with a NASA victory, a future where devolution will be strengthened and Somalis will feel proud as Kenyans,&rdquo; said Farah. But Duale insists that Somalis are the biggest beneficiaries under the Jubilee administration. &ldquo;Never since independence has the North Eastern region benefited from the government like under Jubilee,&rdquo; said the Majority Leader. Kisii and Nyamira counties, with a combined total of 824,438 votes, is also turning out to be a battleground for NASA and Jubilee. The ruling party has Nyachae and Kisii Senator Chris Obure leading the hunt for votes. The duo will have to battle it out with Kisii governor James Ongwae and former minister Sam Ongeri, who are leading the NASA onslaught. In 2013 Raila got 358,221 against 149,667 for Uhuru in the region. With the polls just 76 days away, the Bomet governor and Kirwa will lead the charm offensive for Raila in Rift Valley. But Ruto&rsquo;s competitor for governor, Deputy Speaker Joyce Laboso believes Jubilee can get more votes than it did in 2013.