NAIROBI, KENYA: Travelers are increasingly using their mobile phones in planning for trips abroad, a new study indicates. The percentage share of bookings completed through the smart phone on Jumia Travel for instance stands at 68 percent as compared to 32 percent carried out on desktops. Another interesting observation on the adoption of mobile use is in the search phase, where an increasing share of 51 percent of travelers carry out their pre-trip planning and research on smartphone as compared to 49 percent operating from a desktop. Although it is worth of note that mobile adaptation may vary from country to country, an overall internet penetration rate of 27.7 percent in Africa&rsquo;s points to the imperative need for hotels to adapt their services to the demands of the tech-savvy customer. The most active demographic falls between age 25-34 at 40.3 percent followed by 35-44, at 22 percent. This perhaps majorly explains the rapid adoption of mobile bookings as the age groups fall in the most tech-hungry of generations. The report which follows a successful series of country-based hospitality reports in countries such as Kenya, Nigeria, Ghana, and Senegal among others is done in collaboration with French multinational hotel group, Accor Hotels and Ethiopian Airlines, highlighting major tourism, travel, and hospitality trends in Africa. It gives a panoramic outlook on what the continent has so far achieved, lingering challenges, as well as various factors determining the industry&rsquo;s landscape. Contributing to 7.8 percent (USD 165.6bn) of the continent&rsquo;s GDP in 2016, which is expected to rise to 7.9 percent of GDP (USD 170.5bn) in 2017, the Tourism and Travel Industry still has more untapped potential as expressed by Paul Midy, the Chief Executive Office for Jumia Travel. Although the report indicates that the market is not evenly distributed, with top leaders such as Morocco, Egypt, and South Africa dwarfing other economies on the share of international arrivals; it is easy to identify why domestic tourism should be on a top priority for respective stakeholders who wish to bolster earnings from the travel trade. It should be noted that in 2016, domestic travel spending generated 63.7 percent of Africa&rsquo;s Tourism GDP, as compared to the foreign visitor spending which contributed to 36.3 percent in 2016 (USD 40.7 bn). Given these figures, Midy urged stakeholders to invest in the (local/regional travel) sub-sector, observing that it is significantly under-explored, as most stakeholders focus on international visitors. Again, intra-bound travel which essentially counts on Africans travelling within Africa takes dominance on Jumia Travel at 90 percent, with international arrivals amounting to 10 percent. In her commentary covering inter and intra-border tourism, Carmen Nibigira the Regional Coordinator for East Africa Tourism Platform pressed stakeholders to invest more in developing marketing concepts that appeal and speak to the local market. Souleyman Khol, Head of Marketing and Revenue Management (Africa and Indian Ocean) of Accor Hotels notes that Africa has the fastest growth in hotel development, taking into account both luxurious lines as well as economic establishments. The VP attributes the growing success in the sector to a rising middle class taking part in both business and leisure travel, &ldquo;this is good news for us, as this emerging group forms a formidable base for intra-travel across the continent&rdquo;. It&rsquo;s worth of note that Africa&rsquo;s six per cent growth in tourism arrivals doubled that of the global growth at three per cent. Expressing the group&rsquo;s plan to double its presence in Africa, Souleyman advised hotel investors to adapt their offers to local travel behaviours while also investing in meeting expected standards for the targeted market base. Affluent demographics, three-star preference and the gender question At 40.3 percent, a more open minded demographic consisting of 22-34 year olds leads the pack in travel numbers, with the subsequent age group of 35-44&rsquo;s taking up 22 percent of bookings made on Jumia Travel. This can perhaps be explained by the fact that most of the travelers in the earlier group are more likely to be un-attached, hence less commitments. Presenting the analysis during the launch, Cyrus Onyiego - Country Manager, Jumia Travel noted that while most business travelers are unaccompanied and on a restrictive travel schedule, leisure travelers are more likely to travel in a group such as that of family members or friends, thereby explaining the numbers. On payment models, the question on security, ease and accountability comes up as pay-at-the-hotel takes over the giant&rsquo;s share at 72 percent, as mobile payments contribute to 6 percent while card payments share 15%. Bank transfers mostly appeal to corporate programs, totalling to 7 percent. Reflecting the economic status of the average population in African countries, three-star establishments attract 44 percent of total bookings, while four and five -star respectively take 19 percent and 4 percent. The key advantage over competition is that they act as a middle-point for price, service, and amenities.&nbsp; It&rsquo;s interesting to note that men contribute to 62 percent of bookings on Jumia Travel, while women take up 32 percent.