&nbsp; The electoral agency is designing the longest ballot paper in Kenya&#39;s history. Judging from the high number of candidates that will be running for election, the ballot paper will have to be longer than in previous elections. The rise of independent candidates and the high number of MCA candidates has presented the electoral agency with a ballot paper size headache. Small scroll As things stand, Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) may need to produce ballot papers the size of small scroll to fit in the name of all candidates. ALSO READ: IEBC, Jubilee answer NASA on poll tallying The country could be heading the direction of Australia where in 2013 elections, a senate candidates&#39; ballot paper was said to be the size of &#39;a small child.&#39; Although IEBC yesterday said that the long ballot paper presents no administrative costs, it is expected to pose a headache for voters, especially the elderly and the uneducated. Voters could also find it difficult to fold the paper and identify party and candidates&#39; symbols, which range from toothpicks to flash disks. The longer ballot paper also means that voters will spend more time at the polling booth as they attempt to make out the names and symbols in the ballot paper. &quot;The length of the ballot paper will certainly be longer. There should not be any administrative costs since the administrative and logistical infrastructure is already in place. Independent candidates will of course be served by the same officials,&quot; said IEBC communications manager, Andrew Limo. In the presidential race, IEBC will need to print a ballot paper to fit in the name of nine candidates. There are 1280 candidates vying for governor positions and 258 candidates for Senator. ALSO READ: Our peculiar politics and why status quo always remains The electoral body will also produce ballot papers for 1470 candidates running for Member of Parliament position and 260 for County women representative position. Printing tender The tender for the printing of over 120 million ballot papers will be done through restricted tendering where interested bidders will be required to give their quotations before IEBC can pick the most suitable firm. IEBC has up to June 30 to pick the supplier. Yesterday, Commission workers were busy analyzing candidates&#39; list forwarded to the electoral body by political parties. The Standard has also learnt IEBC had invited all independent candidates to discuss concerns that many agents could overcrowd polling stations on voting day.&nbsp; ALSO READ: Joho&rsquo;s stern test to unify his party