School authorities have the power to suspend or expel your child when they misbehave, the High Court has ruled. The court ruled that schools have an obligation to bring up morally upright citizens and as such can take punitive measures to ensure this is achieved. The ruling arose from a case where a parent sued a private school for suspending his child for allegedly being a bully and sending lewd messages to her classmates. &ldquo;In my view, the authority of schools and their administrators to impose sanctions, including expulsion, as disciplinary action against erring students,&rdquo; High Court judge Chacha Mwita ruled. Justice Mwita said school administrators had the authority and responsibility to maintain discipline in their institutions. PARENT&rsquo;S ARGUMENT ALSO READ: Court stops disbursement of Sh6 billion to IDPs In the case, the parent complained the school suspended his daughter without giving her a chance to defend herself and that teachers had severally subjected the girl to cruel treatment by punishing her. But the school painted a different picture of the girl. According to the school&rsquo;s director, her parents were aware of her indiscipline but were uncooperative in correcting her. The court was told the school received complaints from students and parents about the girl&rsquo;s behaviour.The school then suspended her pending disciplinary procedures. The administrator told the court the girl and her parent were later summoned to the school three times but failed to turn up. The parent argued the school forced his daughter to sign confessions on allegations of misconduct. DISCIPLINARY ACTION The judge however disagreed with the parent on the disciplinary action, noting there was no evidence that the school was biased against his daughter. He told the parent he should have waited for the school&rsquo;s disciplinary process to end before moving to court. ALSO READ: Man moves to court demanding his &lsquo;love token&rsquo; back &ldquo;Suspension can only be imposed when all other means of correction fail to bring about proper conduct, or if the student presents a danger to people and property or disrupts the educational process for other students,&rdquo; he said. &nbsp;