The daughter of the late British tycoon Harry Roy Veevers on Thursday told an inquest that she spoke with him on telephone from the United Kingdom a few hours before he died in his bed in Mombasa. Alexandra Veevers is Harry&#39;s widow Azra Parveen Din with whom he fled with to Kenya after divorcing his first wife Florence Marvis in England in the early 1980s. Azra&#39;s family and Florence&#39;s children Richard and Philip who remained in touch with their father after the divorce are estranged and have traded accusations over his sudden death on Valentine&rsquo;s Day 2013. Philip and Richard claim Azra and her daughters Alexandra and Hellen killed Harry after learning he was planning to marry another woman but they deny this insisting the tycoon died of natural causes after suffering ill health for years. Alexandra Veevers yesterday before Senior Principal magistrate Charles Ndegwa&nbsp; who is presiding at the inquest. ALSO READ: UK man was eyeing third wife before his death, probe told &quot;It is true I spoke to him on February 13 2013 a few hours before he died on February 14 2013 at 4.00 am in his room,&quot; said Alexandra who did not state what they spoke about. Alexandra who was being cross examined by lawyer Kinyua Kimunde for Richard and Philip said she was not surprised after the death of her father but she was very upset. &quot;I was not surprised about the death of my father because I knew he was an ill person but I was very upset after my mother broke the news of his death to me while in UK on February 14 2013 ,&quot;said Alexandra. The witness who got worked several times and failed to answer question filed by the lawyer was warned by the court not to talk about what she had not been asked. Alexandra was warned by the magistrate to stop getting irritated over things she had not been asked after she shouted: &quot;I am not a murderer. I am not on trial for a murder case ,&quot; she protested that the way Kinyua was treating her since he started cross examining her was like she was a murder suspect. She accused her brothers Richard Veevers and Philip Veevers of branding her a murderer because they wanted to inherit the property of their father Mombasa without giving them a share. She denied having got a false court order in Mombasa to have Richard Veevers jailed following claims by lawyer Kinyua that they wanted him jailed to stop him from pursuing the cause of the death of their father. Alexandra admitted that her uncle was married to her aunt Gachu Bunu who organized the burial of their father at Muslim cemetery in Mombasa after his death. &quot;Yes the daughter of Gachu Bunu was married to my uncle who died in India after taking an overdose of a drug,&quot;said Alexandra. Alexandra admitted that the daughter of Guchu Bunu inherited the property of her uncle despite having been divorced. &quot;Yes my uncle Jesse Veevers was married to the brother of my father who died in India over 10 years ago and it true they divorced. Richard Veevers have accused their step mother Azra Praveen Din of conspiring with her two daughters and Guchu Bunu and poisoned their father to death to inherit his vast estate both in UK and Kenya. She told the court that his father was converted to Islamic religion after he got married to her mother and that was why he was buried in a Muslim Cemetry in Mombasa. The witness said she had no problem with her father&#39;s body being flown to UK from Mombasa for a re- burial if that was the wish of her grandmother who had written a letter to the effect. &quot;Who am I to oppose my grandmother&#39;s wish to have the remains of my father taken to UK for burial?&nbsp; she quipped in response to Kinyua.