While clinching the Jubilee Party ticket is as good as winning the election in the party&rsquo;s strongholds, the Jubilee ticket bearers in Narok will not be breathing easy. Jubilee aspirants must now face the hurdle of squaring it out with opposition ODM and Chama Cha Mashinani (CCM) contenders in the race for county and constituency seats. Governor Samuel Tunai, Woman Rep Soipan Tuya and former Narok South MP Nkoidila ole Lankas did not participate in the nominations because they were handed direct tickets, but they must now contend with stiff competition from their opponents. Mr Tunai will face Narok West MP Patrick Ntutu, who is vying through Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto&#39;s CCM and ODM&rsquo;s Joseph Tiampati. For the Woman Representative position, the incumbent will face a crowded field of aspirants seeking to unseat her. Among them is Lydia Ntimama, daughter of the late William ole Ntimama, who was the Maa community spokesman. ALSO READ: Opinion: It's not business as usual, elected leaders must deliver services Ms Ntimama ditched Jubilee Party and joined CCM, claiming the former favoured the incumbent. Others are ODM&rsquo;s Rebecca Tonkei and Kanu&rsquo;s Shonko Kuluo, who also ditched Jubilee. Jubilee&rsquo;s sole Senate aspirant, Narok South MP Lankas, will face ODM&rsquo;s Ledama ole Kina and youthful National Vision Party (NVP) candidate Albert Kiplang&rsquo;at, popularly known as &lsquo;Kiming&rsquo;in&rsquo;. In Narok North, lawyer Koitikei Rotiken will be battling it out with ODM&rsquo;s Moitalel ole Kenta. Mr Kenta, who is also a lawyer, decamped from The National Alliance to join ODM and will be banking on his vibrancy in addressing the issues facing the Maasai community such as conservation of the Mau Forest. Tough task In Narok East, the incumbent, Lemanken Aramat, also has a tough task as he faces former Nakuru County Finance Chief Officer Torome Kapaya (Independent) and ODM&rsquo;s Alfred Keriolale, the former Narok County government bursary director. ALSO READ: Opinion: Did Kalonzo miss the bigger picture in NASA leadership deal? In Kilgoris, sitting MP Gideon Konchella will face ODM&rsquo;s Oiboo Morintat and CCM&rsquo;s Richard Kelele. The Narok South contest will be between the incumbent, Korei ole Lemein, CCM&rsquo;s Simon Korir and Kanu&rsquo;s Koitilai Ntutu. In Narok West, former Kenya National Union of Teachers official Stanley ole Mpoe (Jubilee) will face CCM&rsquo;s Gabriel Tong&rsquo;oyo. Jubilee is also battling to oust vocal Emurrua Dikir MP Johana Ng&rsquo;eno (CCM) who will be up against local trader David Keter, popularly known as &lsquo;Dollar Line&rsquo;.