A micro-finance seeking to dispose a piece of land, 0.044 hectares in size, which had been used to secure a loan has been sued for inflating interest rates. Simon Gichohi Mbuthia sued Letshego Kenya Limited formerly Micro Africa Finance Limited claiming he has been overcharged interest. In an application done under certificate of urgency, Mbuthia sought conservatory orders by a Nakuru High court to prevent the micro-finance from advertising for sale or in any way disposing his land. The land he said was used to secure a Sh3million loan in August 2015, a loan he was required to clear in 72 months with an interest of 12 per cent per annum-a loan which he intended to use in construction. Through a letter dated August 19, 2015 Letshego offered him the loan. Letshego in their letter indicated that Mbuthia as a borrower shall pay interest as determined by it from time to time and calculated on a day to day basis on cleared balances. Interest they stated will be payable monthly in arrears and further confirmed the rates charged will be 12 per cent flat rate. ALSO READ: NIC Bank profit dips to Sh952 million &quot;The borrower shall pay interest at such a rate as may be determined by Letshego Kenya Limited from time to time and interest rates will be charged at 12 per cent flat rate,&quot; indicated the letter. Mbuthia in the letter was however not informed of the amount of monthly installment he was supposed to be making which he raised concerns on. He was informed that he will be given a repayment schedule. A repayment letter done to him September 7, 2015 indicated that he was to pay a monthly deposit of Sh73,099 and he begun making payments only to realize he was falling into arrears. On March 3, 2017 an auctioneer service company, Jogedah Auctioneers served him with a 45 day redemption notice with a notification of sale of his property. &quot;Take note that in the exercise of statutory powers conferred upon the creditors (Letshego), we on behalf of them shall sell by public auction the property/properties described herein (land) at a public auction to be held on May 5, 2017 at 11am outside National Bank of Kenya-Nakuru Branch unless the amount claimed plus auctioneers charges and advocate charges are paid in full prior to the auction,&quot; read the letter. He was informed that the amount claimed by the micro-finance as at February 28, 2017 amounted to Sh3, 282,438.01. Mbuthia said he tried to request for a loan statement in March but there was no response. He was forced to engage the services of a certified public accountant. ALSO READ: KCB lays off staff as lenders face tough test in digital era Ms Ruoro Kotut reviewed and analysed the loan statement he had received on January 26, 2017 and did a report. The report indicated that Letshego charged Mbuthia an interest rate of 20.71 per cent per annum instead of 12 per cent as agreed. The accountant further observed that his client was overpaying his loan by Sh14, 449 per month as he was paying Sh73.099.14 while he should have been repaying Sh58, 680. &quot;From a standard loan harmonisation calculator, an individual given a loan of Sh3million for 72 months at the rate of 12 percent would normally make a repayment of Sh58,650.58 for 72 months, this would translate to total of Sh703, 806.96 per annum in six years,&quot; stated a report by the accountant Ms Kotut. &quot;From our detailed calculation, it is clear that the loan was given at an average rate of 20.71 percent contrary to what the letter of offer indicated as 12 per cent,&quot; further read the report. Mbuthia said Letshego never made a formal demand letter to him demanding the repayment of loan arrears if any neither was he issued with the mandatory 90 days&#39; notice as required by the law. Mbuthia claims his pleas to have a review of the interest rates charged on him to reflect the correct amount have been ignored. The acts of the financial institution and the auctioneers he said are illegal and pleads with the court to stop them from advertising his land for sale. &quot;The acts of the defendants are illegal, unlawful, null and void and should be stopped by this court,&quot; stated Mbuthia in his affidavit.