An MCA who made history by stripping naked before journalists to protest at an alleged insult to Opposition leader Raila Odinga has won a repeat party nomination. Fred Odhiambo Ouda, the Central Gem MCA, floored seasoned and wealthy politicians, including the current MP, Ken Obura.&nbsp; Mr Ouda garnered 6,649 votes against his closest challenger, former TNA secretary-general Onyango Oloo, who&nbsp; garnered 4,700 votes, with Mr Obura finishing third with 2,040 votes. The High Court had ordered the Orange party to repeat the nomination for Kisumu Central within 72 hours following an appeal by Oloo, who was contesting Obura&rsquo;s win in the polls held on April 24. Although Mr Ouda had earlier also been decreed the winner of the seat by ODM and handed the nomination certificate, his victory was overturned by a lower court in favour of Obura, whom the court ordered to be awarded the certificate within 12 hours. Countrywide protests ALSO READ: Nyeri Jubilee nominees vow to work together in campaigns Ouda was in the news again last year when he chained himself at the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) Nyanza regional offices during the countrywide protests to force out the then commissioners. Although he comes from Gem, Ouda&rsquo;s extended family lives in Kisumu. The Tuesday voting was a repeat match between the contestants to determine the clear winner of the nomination. Returning officer Julius Odoyo declared Ouda the victor with results from 36 of the 45 polling stations. Mr Odoyo said the results from the remaining nine polling stations would not make a difference. Nine polling stations &lsquo;&rsquo;I have nine ballot boxes here with votes cast but I cannot see any presiding officer here to officially hand over to me the results. They came, dropped the ballot boxes, and left,&rsquo;&rsquo; the ODM election official claimed. &lsquo;&rsquo;I am so happy the exercise went on smoothly,&rdquo; said Ouda.&nbsp; ALSO READ: Turkana leaders call for passage of Petroleum Law