Stealthily, Uhuru Kenyatta moves to place a noose around Raila Odinga&#39;s &#39;political&#39; neck. Convinced all is clear from the ambush point where he and his assistants have been hiding and waiting to spring the nasty surprise, he waves forward Kiraitu Murungi, Peter Munya, Martha Karua and Anne Waiguru. At the exact moment Murungi and Waiguru start moving forward, Munya grabs Kiraitu by the throat as Karua trips Waiguru, who falls to the ground heavily, letting out a squeal that alerts Odinga to the danger, and he whirls around to confront it. Across the road, back-up Alfred Mutua, surprised by the squeal, jerks upward but forgets to conceal his machete. Passers-by mistake him for a notorious hoodlum who has been terrorising locals and lynch him. Plan soured. Success in doubt. That encapsulates the absurdity of some fringe parties declaring their support for President Uhuru Kenyatta&#39;s re-election, yet waiting to clobber his aides silly. Joy riders Save for one, fringe parties supporting Uhuru, bar Jubilee in the August elections, are feckless one-man, one-woman shows. They hope to hitch their wagons for a free ride on Uhuru Kenyatta&#39;s thoroughbred horse for the extra mileage it would give them. No ideologies, no principles as long as they get there. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has sanctioned the perjury that is sure to follow the concluded nominations to begin on May 28, 2017. The ever gullible masses are waiting to be fooled along for the consideration of a few hundred shillings here and there. Because Kenyans myopically allow themselves to be guided by the misguided and avaricious, they will throw caution to the wind and end up with masquerades they will hate but be compelled to learn to put up with. Unity in purpose ALSO READ: IEBC enters key stage on register Numbers have been bandied as proof of the following that Jubilee and NASA enjoy. Already, some locations have been designated &#39;swing vote&#39; areas, and this is where the battles will be fought. &#39;Swing vote&#39; is a synonym for the corruptible; fledglings that fall for anything as the Luhyas were disdainfully branded in the past. Mudavadi and the community must correct this erroneous perception. They must stand up in unity, either to win or lose defending something they believe in. Jubilee has Central safely tucked away and guaranteed. And while Western Kenya has, for long, been considered the swing vote area, the dynamics have changed with Mudavadi becoming the Luhya tribe&#39;s pointman. The added advantage of having the Maragoli and Bukusu subtribes of the Luhya together under NASA will cure the perennial divisions and rivalry these two have had over decades. Mudavadi&#39;s work of delivering the Luhya block intact to NASA may be sullied by Benjamin Washiali, MP for Mumias East and David Were of Matungu Constituency and Bungoma Governor Ken Lusaka. They snubbed Mudavadi&#39;s coronation and have chosen to swim against the current. The three are spearheading Jubilee&#39;s attempts to take a chunk of the votes in the predominantly Opposition-leaning region. On their own, these three present no threat because the planks on which they would have campaigned crumbled. Nonetheless, ignoring them could present a minor headache because Jubilee has loads of cash to spread around. Jubilee will no doubt stir up issues around Mumias Sugar; even brag it had bailed out the giant sugar miller with Sh1.5 billion when it floated an IPO in 2015 even as the miller sinks deeper into debts and problems. Jubilee will attempt to portray Raila as one of the biggest debtors to the company, for they have ineffectually tried it before without success. Best placed But the Opposition has the upper hand should that come up. First, the Government has not given the company the balance of Sh3.5 billion it pledged. Secondly, while there is a biting sugar shortage in the country, the Government has allowed Mumias Sugar to close for three months, ostensibly for maintenance. A couple of days after Mumias&#39;s closure, the arrival of imported sugar in the country is announced; how fortuitous! ALSO READ: Where is Owira the President's son? Besides the job losses this has caused to thousands of cane cutters and hundreds of cane transporters, it is proof that improving the sugar sector in the country is not a priority for Jubilee. None of the major sugar companies in Western Kenya; Mumias, Muhoroni, Sony and Nzoia is operating even at half capacity. Mumias Sugar, particularly, is labouring under the yoke of too much politics, which has forced the current managing director of the company to quit. Finding the Kakamega/Webuye Road on the delivery portal may be a bit of a challenge because five years on, it is still in the state of excavation it was in at the beginning of 2013. Twice, William Ruto has promised the road would be carpeted but nothing has been done. Months later, Pan Paper is yet to start contributing to global warming by spewing acrid smoke into the environment. It was a project that never was. A fool&#39;s parade. Mr Chagema is a correspondent at The Standard. [email&#160;protected]