&nbsp; Mombasa governor Hassan Joho introduces new running mate to Siaya governor James Okumbe (left) before a crowd in Siaya town on May 29,2017 after successfully escorting Siaya senator James Orengo for clearance at the county IEBC offices. The governor has now officially dropped his official running mate Ouma Onyango. (Photo: Denish Ochieng/ Standard) A number of ODM leaders yesterday rallied the residents of Nyanza region to vote for the party&#39;s candidates and ignore those running as independents. Governors Hassan Joho (Mombasa) and Cornel Rasanga (Siaya) led the ODM brigade in pushing for six-piece voting - for the presidency, governorship, Senate, woman rep, MP and MCA positions. Speaking after they had escorted Senator James Orengo to the electoral commission office for clearance to run for the Senate, the leaders said they would ensure that NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga got all the votes in the region. Mr Orengo was cleared even though the process was delayed for about one hour. During the rally in Bondo, however, Mr Rasanga was forced to cut his speech short when the crowd become hostile. He had just been invited to the stage by Joho. ALSO READ: No, blame not the independents, but our &lsquo;raw&rsquo; democracy Suna MP Junet Mohammed stepped in to cool tempers but the crowd remained adamant and did not even allow Rasanga to introduce his new running mate. &quot;We are here as members of ODM. Politics is like religion. For instance, you cannot be Catholic and Muslim at the same time. We urge you to vote for ODM candidates only. Ignore all those who have decided to run as independent candidates,&quot; Mr Mohammed said. Nominated MP Oburu Oginga said: &quot;We have been sent here by the party to drum up support for our nominees and not for any other reason. Those who have decided to run as independents are free to do so.&quot; Rasanga said he dropped Deputy Governor Ouma Onyango and picked James Okumbe after realising there was a disconnect between Bondo and his government. But his decision did not seem to go down well with a section of the crowed that booed him. Dr Okumbe told the rally, also attended by area MP Gideon Ochanda and Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga, that they would ensure that the perennial shortage of water in Bondo was addressed once and for all if they were elected on August 8. Okumbe, 47, is from Central Sakwa and is a chartered quantity surveyor with a doctorate in civil engineering. ALSO READ: Raila&rsquo;s last stab must renew hope among a frustrated electorate Mr Ouma said he was yet to get communication from the party or Rasanga. &quot;I no longer accompany the governor to events or campaigns for fear of embarrassment. I am however still consulting with the party about my next move, but I will support any ODM candidate,&quot; he said.&nbsp;