The Kenyan military has in the last six months benefited from a Sh80 billion hardware boost from the US government in a deal that helps it cement its position as East Africa&rsquo;s most powerful force. In December, the State Department donated eight Bell Huey helicopters worth Sh11 billion (US$106 million) to Kenya Defence Forces (KDF). Kenya will be receiving more advanced military hardware and training from the US as it bids to position itself as a strategic regional partner in the fight against terrorism. The latest indulgence with the US marks a shift in Kenya&rsquo;s earlier endearment to China, which had supplied Z-9WA attack helicopters that formed the lethal aerial onslaught on Al Shabaab. Last week, military spokesman Joseph Owuoth said the ongoing modernisation of KDF is tied to emerging threats globally. &ldquo;Militaries the world over have to undergo constant modernisation and KDF is no exception,&rdquo; Colonel Owuoth said. KDF is scheduled to acquire eight other Bell Huey helicopters worth Sh11.6 billion, 12 Air Tractor AT-802L, two AT-504 Trainer aircraft worth Sh43.3 billion and 12 MD 530F weaponised attack helicopters worth approximately Sh23 billion. In January, the US Defence Security Cooperation Agency (DSCA) informed Congress of the intention to sell 12 Air Tractor AT-802L and two AT-504 Trainer aircraft, weapons, technical support and programme management to Kenya. ALSO READ: Please rescue our son, family pleads after Al Shabaab video &ldquo;This proposed sale contributes to the foreign policy and national security of the US by improving the security of a strong regional partner who is a regional security leader undertaking critical operations against Al Shabaab and troop contributor to the African Union Mission in Somalia (Amisom),&rdquo; the DSCA said then. The purchase of the Air Tractors would give KDF the much needed Close Air Support (CAS) capability to deal with Al Shabaab. AT Air Tractors are agricultural aircraft converted for military use, especially for intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance, with a 3,600kg payload capable of using Mk 82 bombs, hellfire missiles, M260 rocket launchers and GAU-19 Gatling guns. However, an investigative committee of the US Congress has demanded key documents related to this deal. The House of Representatives Oversight and Government Reform Committee has ordered the US Air Force, which arranged the deal, to produce a set of specified materials &ldquo;as soon as possible, but no later than noon on June 2.&rdquo; The State Department has also approved the sell to KDF of 12 MD 530F weaponised helicopters with 24 Heavy Machine Gun Pod (HMP) 400 systems, 24 rocket launchers, 4,032 M151 rockets, 1,536 2.75 inch M274 smoke signature warheads and 400,000 rounds of .50 calibre ammunition. A recent report says Kenya has in the recent years been raising its military spending above the combined budget of Uganda and Ethiopia. The March 2017 Jane&rsquo;s Defence Weekly reported that KDF units in Amisom used Boeing Insitu ScanEagle Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) to monitor Al Shabaab operations in Somalia. [email&#160;protected] ALSO READ: Al Shabaab torment recruits&rsquo; families