President Uhuru Kenyatta was Monday afternoon cleared to run for a second term in office after he presented his nomination papers to the IEBC with Deputy President William Ruto as his running mate. The President arrived at the Kenyatta International Convention Center accompanied by thousands of Nairobi residents who had followed him from Nairobi&rsquo;s Eastland&rsquo;s where he had addressed rallies. The President addressed rallies at Donholm, Buruburu, Bahati, City Stadium and Muthurwa in Nairobi&rsquo;s Eastlands which is home to the majority of the city&rsquo;s residents. At the rallies, President Kenyatta said he was humbly asking Kenyans to vote for him for a second term so that the Jubilee Administration can continue with development programs it has been implementing to transform the country. &nbsp;&ldquo;We are not people who rely on propaganda and we do not incite Kenyans against each other. All we want is for Kenyans to be together and enjoy the prosperity of our nation,&rdquo; said the President when he spoke in Donholm. He said the Jubilee Administration has delivered on its promise to expand the country&rsquo;s road networks. ALSO READ: Talking to the world: The meaning of Uhuru's address at G7 summit He said the expansion of the road network in Eastlands will be completed soon even though it had been delayed by consideration concerning displacement of traders along the road corridor. President Kenyatta urged Kenyans to remain peaceful during the electioneering period, adding that the Jubilee Administration stands for unity and peace. He said Kenyans should be allowed to choose the leaders they want without being forced, calling on politicians to be civil as they seek for votes. &ldquo;We said Kenya will not progress through tribalism or incitement and our pledge has always been to unite Kenyans,&rdquo; said the President. President Kenyatta said the Jubilee Administration has delivered on its promise to expand the road coverage, make examinations free of charge, make maternity free of charge and expand connections to electricity. &ldquo;Beginning next year, we are promising that no parent will be asked to pay secondary school fees and we have already factored Sh5 billion in the new budget for that purpose,&rdquo; said the President. ALSO READ: Presidential aspirant arrested over &lsquo;suicide bid&rsquo; at agency offices