President Uhuru Kenyatta will today submit his nomination papers to the electoral commission as he campaigns for a second term in office. Uhuru is expected at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC) at 2.15pm to seek clearance from the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) ahead of the August 8 elections. The President will be accompanied by his deputy, William Ruto, Jubilee Party national officials, and candidates in Nairobi. Uhuru has lined up a packed meet-the-people tour of the city, with stopovers in key areas as he gears for the contest billed as a two-horse-race with National Super Alliance (NASA) candidate Raila Odinga. An itinerary by Jubilee shows that Uhuru will start his tour at 10am, with the first stopover at the Pipeline bus stage. He will then proceed to Madaraka, through the Jogoo/Outering roads junction, before making his way to City Stadium. ALSO READ: IEBC owes it to nation to deliver fair polls The Head of State will make another stopover at Muthurwa Market, then Wakulima Market before moving to the Railways roundabout. Uhuru will also meet people at the busy Kencom stage before making a final stopover at City Hall at about 2pm, just before submitting his papers. The President and his brigade will later address a public rally at the Comesa grounds at KICC. Uhuru is anchoring his campaign on his achievements in the past four years and is asking for another term to continue with some of the projects. Uhuru and Ruto hope Kenyans will re-elect them based on their achievements&nbsp; that include health care (free maternal care), road network, Last Mile Project, standard gauge railway (SGR), and national examination fee waiver. Uhuru-Ruto will, however, have to fight the perception of corruption, high cost of living, and the growing national debt. Jubilee Secretary-General Raphael Tuju Sunday said the party&rsquo;s agenda is to empower the more than 40 million Kenyans through development projects such as roads, electricity, and better health care. ALSO READ: Raila team pledges to lower cost of living if it wins &ldquo;Ours is about what we can do for Kenyans in the next five years. This is not the case with our opponents who are basically asking themselves how to share power,&rdquo; said Tuju. The SGR, which Uhuru will officially launch on Wednesday, has become a major campaign tool for Jubilee. State House said Uhuru would on Tuesday be in Mombasa to launch the cargo freight services of the standard gauge railway at Port Reitz. Several stopovers On Wednesday, Uhuru will ride the first train from Mombasa to Nairobi and make several stopovers to pitch for his re-election. &ldquo;The President and hundreds of Kenyans from all walks of life, diplomats and Chinese envoys, and special guests will ride the first train, launching services on SGR from Mombasa to Nairobi,&rdquo; said the State House statement. Uhuru will make stops at Mariakani in Kwale County, Voi in Taita Taveta, Mtito Andei in Makueni, and Emali in Kajiado, to commission stations. ALSO READ: Aukot, Dida get go-ahead as agency turns Nyaga away At Syokimau in Nairobi, the President will make a &lsquo;major speech&rsquo;. It is expected that Uhuru will use the project to rally support for his candidature. Uhuru will on Thursday be in Nyeri, where celebrations for Madaraka Day will be held. Also submitting their papers today are former Cabinet minister Joseph Nyaga (independent), Michael Mwaura (independent), and Cyrus Jirongo (United Democratic Party).