When he was unveiled as NASA&rsquo;s flag bearer two weeks ago, Raila Odinga proclaimed he would lead Kenyans &ldquo;to the promised land&rdquo;. He has since provided little idea of how he will perform such a feat. And yet, Raila&rsquo;s supporters have taken to pronouncing the man without a plan as their &ldquo;Joshua&rdquo;. Raila&rsquo;s theological imagery may well be enticing, but it is also thoroughly deceptive. Any comparison to the Biblical hero Joshua is absurd. CLEAR MISSION After all, Joshua had a clear mission, a well-defined goal &ndash; To lead the Children of Israel into their homeland and to settle there, whatever it may take. And in order to achieve this, Joshua carefully constructed a well-thought-out strategy for a military campaign which the Bible tells us lasted seven years. ALSO READ: MPs told to give Sh290 million for innovation hubs By comparison, Raila would struggle to articulate what he plans to do during his first seven days in office, should he reach State House in August. Beyond vague promises of a better future and lip service to Kenyans who need help the most, Raila has yet to define anything approaching a plan for our country. RAILA&rsquo;S PROMISED LAND What would the &lsquo;promised land&rsquo; of Raila&rsquo;s Kenya look like? It is unlikely even he could say. Of course, like any truly great leader, Joshua led from the front. The Bible describes him as a brave warrior, unafraid to go into battle, even against the odds. Most famously, when the city of Jericho appeared too awesome an obstacle to victory, Joshua found a way to triumph. Although Raila too has consistently refused to accept defeat, the contrast could not be greater. Returning to our biblical hero, perhaps Joshua&rsquo;s most remarkable trait was his determination to follow the correct moral path. It would be easy for a battle-hardened warrior to show a ruthless disregard for the rules. But Joshua understood that one of the tests of leadership is to take the correct moral turn when faced with adversity. ALSO READ: MPs told to give Sh290 million for innovation hubs Joshua kept faith in God&rsquo;s promise, even when he spied the difficulties of the Land of Israel on a scouting mission. And when faced with death itself, he urged the people to follow God&rsquo;s way. While Joshua is immortalised for his declarations of faith, Raila is mired in moral controversy on numerous fronts. It is hardly the record of a national figurehead, let alone a Biblical giant. And even if Raila were justified in comparing himself to Joshua, surely credit must also be given to Moses? After all, Joshua revered the man who led his people from Egypt and crossed the Red Sea. CREDIT IS DUE But don&rsquo;t expect Raila to give any credit to President Uhuru Kenyatta for the strong foundations he has laid for Kenya&rsquo;s next chapter. Under Uhuru&rsquo;s leadership, the economy continues to grow, more Kenyans have access to healthcare, electricity and the internet than ever before. But Raila can&rsquo;t even bring himself to applaud the very real measures Uhuru is currently taking to tackle the cost of living, an issue Raila purports to hold dear. Raila has poured scorn on recent announcements to raise the minimum wage and a supplementary budget to stabilise the price of basic food. ALSO READ: MPs told to give Sh290 million for innovation hubs Raila is clearly no Joshua. His slick rhetoric and attractive promises are designed to entice the masses. But so were those of the false prophets, who we are warned to avoid in the Scriptures. And like those false prophets, Raila may even believe the adoration he sometimes receives. But words without substance, which are devoid of moral fibre will ultimately be exposed for what they really are &ndash; Empty words. And Raila would do well to note the fate of the Bible&rsquo;s false prophets, who like him championed illusory promises &ndash; They became nothing more than a footnote. &nbsp;