Deputy President William Ruto has hit out at the National Super Alliance (NASA) for their criticism of the importation of maize. Mr Ruto said the Opposition was happy when Kenyans suffered as they wanted issues they could use to criticise the Government. He said the arrival of a cargo ship with maize should not raise any alarm as the Government was proactive in alleviating Kenya&#39;s pain. &quot;Others are questioning why a ship with maize arrived earlier than expected. They want a delay so that Kenyans can continue suffering. Ours is to ensure that Kenyans get food on time,&quot; he said. Speaking during a church service at Sinoko Pefa Church in Webuye, the DP said importing maize was not a phenomenon associated with the Jubilee administration alone. He said in previous years, Kenya had faced prolonged dry spells that necessitated the importation of maize from other countries. ALSO READ: Firms behind maize import Ruto cited 2009, 2008 and 2011 as some of the years that the Government imported maize to curb a looming food crisis. Meanwhile, the Government has recruited at least 150,000 youths in the National Youth Service enterprise programme. Ruto noted that the youths had been employed on a temporary basis to participate in the economic growth of the country. &quot;They will be supported to start small business ventures. The Government is committed to ensuring more youths are absorbed into the programme,&quot; he said while launching the programme in Mumias West constituency. At least 900 youths were picked to work on several projects in the constituency. Public Service and Youth Affairs Principal Secretary Lilian Mbogo said under the programme, the youths would earn Sh341 and save Sh141 daily. Elsewhere, Nambale MP John Bunyasi has advised the Government to open its borders and allow maize to be imported from neighbouring countries to address an acute shortage of the grain. ALSO READ: Muthama: I will spill beans on Kalonzo Speaking at the weekend, Mr Bunyasi said the demand for maize was extremely high but regretted that the supply was too low. According to him, opening the borders will pave the way for the entry of maize from other East African states to mitigate the scarcity.