Expansion of Ngong and Outer Ring roads is on schedule with completion of the construction projects expected later this year, the Government has said.&nbsp; Infrastructure Principal Secretary John Mosonik Thursday inspected the two projects implemented by Kenya Urban Roads Authority (Kura) as part of the agency&#39;s plan to decongest Nairobi and enhance urban transport. &quot;These road projects are part of the wider decongestion programme that is aimed at reducing travel time through improved traffic flow. I have inspected the progress and so far it is good. We are on time and soon people living in the city will waste no time on the roads,&quot; said Mr Mosonik. The dualling of Ngong Road Phase 1 - from Kenya National Library to the junction of Ring Road in Kilimani - that was financed by Japan International Cooperation Agency (Jica) started in February last year and covers 2.6km. World Kaihatsu Kogyo Limited was contracted to implement the Sh1.3 billion tender. Mosonik revealed that already 51 per cent of the works is complete and the project is set to be completed by December 31. &quot;The project completion date was revised from July 31, 2017 to December 31, 2017 due to challenges in relocation of services among other project constraints,&quot; he said. ALSO READ: Sugar factory senior managers sent home Ngong Road will be improved in four phases and at the end construction will eventually link Nairobi and Ngong Town. Phase two is expected to cover prestige to Dagoreti corner and phase three Dagoreti Corner to Karen roundabout. The final phase will cover improvement of Karen-Ngong Town-Kiserian-Galleria/Bomas Loop. Project features include; widening of the existing two lane road into a dual carriageway, improvement of drainage facilities, construction of non-motorised traffic lanes, installation of street lights and improvement of key intersections. And work on Outer Ring Road is now 73 per cent complete and the contractor, Sinohydro Tianjin Construction, is expected to complete the project in September. &quot;We are on the right track and doing the final stretch. In September, all the work will be complete,&quot; said Resident Engineer Narayan Blattarai from LEA International. He said it had been a big challenge controlling traffic jams especially at the Donholm roundabout. &quot;In three months time, this will end,&quot; he promised. City residents are upbeat about the project. ALSO READ: Road contractors face capacity test &quot;Congestion, leading to traffic jams is really eating into our business. We are taking three hours from town to Pipeline. This l believe slows the growth of our economy,&quot; said Francis Njenga, a driver with Embassava Sacco. The 13km project worth Sh7.3 billion has converted Outer Ring Road into a dual carriageway expanding its traffic carrying capacity and further transforming Eastlands. [email&#160;protected]