The team in-charge of National Super Alliance (NASA) campaigns in Nairobi has unveiled a &lsquo;one million&rsquo; vote hunt to cement the Opposition&rsquo;s chances of not only clinching the country&rsquo;s top job, but also have Governor Dr Evans Kidero re-elected. Friday, the team led by the governor, said they are working on mobilising a million supporters to accompany NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga and his deputy Kalonzo Musyoka as they submit their nomination papers to the electoral body tomorrow. Official campaigns kick off after the submission and verification exercise at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre. The team, which comprises various aspirants; among them incumbents, will transverse various parts of the city before holding a major rally at Jacaranda Grounds starting 2pm. Areas mapped for the mammoth procession are constituencies of Starehe, Makadara, Embakasi West and Embakasi East. &ldquo;We are going to pull all stops and leave nothing to chance, to ensure our message reaches every voter in the county to enable Nairobi vote for us and the NASA team,&rdquo; said Kidero Adequate security Raila has already submitted&nbsp;the mandatory 48,000 signatures as required by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC). &ldquo;As your servant leaders here in Nairobi County, we look forward to hosting this event and eventually, the swearing in ceremony of Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka as our President and his Deputy,&rdquo; said Kidero. ALSO READ: China based businessman to vie for Sotik MP as independent candidate He added: &ldquo;We are expecting one million Kenyans from across the country on Sunday. I would like to assure everybody that we have made adequate security arrangements.&rdquo; Some of the heavyweights in the team include Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) Nairobi Chair and also Makadara MP aspirant George Aladwa, County Deputy Speaker Ken Ngondi, Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi, Nairobi Senate and Women Rep aspirants Edwin Sifuna and Esther Passaris respectively. Kidero told the gathering of all NASA aspirants for parliamentary and county assembly seats that with the Nairobi campaign team in place, the Jubilee side should be a worried lot. &ldquo;Let it be clear to our competitors; this team (before you) means it will no longer be business as usual. We are with the people. We are one million strong in Nairobi,&rdquo; said Kidero. The county boss took pride in the team saying it has representation from all communities, religions and persuasions: &ldquo;This is what Nasa stands for - inclusivity and equity for all.&rdquo; The governor said during the campaigns, they will be combing every part of the city, to reach everyone in the humble search for votes to ensure that Nasa delivers victory at the Presidency and in Nairobi. Kidero has dismissed the Jubilee line-up in the city as one led by a comedian who should not run the capital. [email&#160;protected]