The government will spend Sh6 billion to set up an irrigation project in Muranga county. Devolution Principal Secretary Irungu Nyakera yesterday said the project would target parts of lower Murang&#39;a that have been affected by drought. The PS said the project, expected to start next year, would cover 15,000 acres of land and would benefit 6,000 households.&nbsp; Speaking while distributing relief supplies to families in Gakonya, Mjini, Kamahuha, and Kambiti villages, Nyakera said the project would tap water from four rivers - Thika, Maragua, Kayahwe, and Saba Saba. The PS said the project by the Tana and Athi River Development Authority would take three years to complete and that it would be handed over to the community. &quot;Farmers will be able to grow rice and onions, among other crops. We are estimating that the farmers will generate up to Sh12 billion annually from the sale of their farm produce,&quot; said Nyakera. The areas to benefit from the project are Maragua Ridge, Kambiti, Gaturi, Kirimiri, and Ithanga in Maragua and Gatanga constituencies. Nyakera, who represented Transport and Infrastructure Cabinet Secretary James Macharia at the function, said the Government has also set aside Sh15 billion for the improvement of roads in the county. He said Mr Macharia had assured him that the roads identified for improvement would be completed on schedule. &quot;The government will ensure that Kenol-Murang&#39;a road is converted into a dual carriage alongside the Kenol-Makutano-Sagana highway,&quot; said Nyakera. County Commissioner John Elungata said at least 10,000 households in the region were in need of relief food. Food donations&nbsp; He added that the Government had made plans to make food donations available to those in need. Elungata said dams would be rehabilitated to provide residents with a steady supply of water. &quot;Most families have embarked on irrigation farming, thus they will need a lot of water. &quot;Farmers in the lower parts of Murang&#39;a worked hard last year only for their crops to be destroyed by wild animals. They prepared their farms early but monkeys and hippos invaded them and caused massive destruction,&quot; said Elungata. He added that the government would ensure that the Kenya Wildlife Service reopens its offices in the county to help contain the menace. &nbsp;