Jubilee Party has received 360 complaints from aspirants following last week&rsquo;s nominations. Party Secretary General Raphael Tuju told reporters that no nomination certificates would be issued until the contested issues were resolved. The tribunal, which is split into three chambers, heard 53 complaints filed by disgruntled aspirants in the Jubilee Party primaries on Saturday. Kamukunji MP Yusuf Hassan is alleging the returning officer tallying Kamukunji results was bribed by his opponent to rig the results. Mr Hassan said he had presented concrete evidence that he beat Simon Mbugua with more than 4,000 votes. &ldquo;I won in 11 polling stations out of 16. Results from the presiding officers showed I was voted for by 10,168 people while my opponents got about 6,000 votes,&rdquo; said Hassan. ALSO READ: Joyce Laboso proposes return of County Development Boards' bill He said since the returning officer declared Mr Mbugua the winner, he had not presented the results showing how many votes each candidate received. Mbugua is a former MP for Kamukunji. Speaking to the press after presenting his case and evidence to the Jubilee tribunal, the MP urged that the matter be expedited to enable them to prepare adequately for the General Election in August. Present verdict The Jubilee Party Appeals Tribunal, which received more than 50 complaints yesterday, is expected to present its verdict by 5pm on Tuesday. &ldquo;I am just waiting to be declared the winner,&rdquo; said a confident Yusuf. The results announced on Thursday were not well received by Hassan&rsquo;s supporters, forcing General Service Unit police officers to disperse the rowdy crowd using teargas. ALSO READ: ODM to release complete list of winners this week Supporters for both aspirants yesterday camped outside the party headquarters in Pangani and almost clashed as Hassan addressed the press, prompting the police to disperse them. Meanwhile, Mbugua challenged Hassan to concede defeat, adding that he had won fair and square. He also called on other nomination losers to concede defeat and support the Government. Charles Njagua, popularly known as Jaguar, also appeared before the tribunal.