Let&rsquo;s review the furore over EALA nominations. More precisely, Kalonzo Musyoka&rsquo;s party nominating his son and Raila Odinga&rsquo;s party attempting to tap his elder brother for the regional legislative body. A section of Kenyans are angry. And that is their right. Yet others agree with Kalonzo&rsquo;s son, that he should not be made to pay for his so-called &lsquo;biological mistake&rsquo;. Deputy President William Ruto has also weighed in saying members of NASA are favouring their families while they in Jubilee are building the nation. Lest we forget, the same man, a few months ago, when the spotlight was on his boss whose sister had drawn the country&rsquo;s ire for being awarded a government tender and then got embroiled in an alleged scandal at the ministry of health, said everyone has a right to do business regardless of their relations. Folks, this conversation is about pots and kettles consistently throwing soot at each other to see who will come out blacker than the other. It has nothing to do with you and I. If I were you, I would stay out of this conversation, for it is none of your business. ALSO READ: EALA exposes nepotism in Jubilee and NASA Allow me to explain. All these leaders would rather die than look for someone outside their already privileged families to give a leg up in life. They do business with each other and with their families. Kalonzo&rsquo;s son talks of a biological mistake. And maybe it is a mistake alright! A mistake for all of us that aren&rsquo;t part of the big political dynasties in this country. A mistake for which we pay every day in terms of missed opportunities, struggle for jobs, struggle for unga! While they on the other side of the fence eat cake. You see, none of the political figures has the moral authority to grand stand on this issue. They all live in glass houses. It is the unspoken code that binds them all together. I will not get into merit issues here, for all I know, Kalonzo&rsquo;s son is probably qualified for the position in Arusha and the president&rsquo;s sister may have had experience enough to win the tender at Afya House; but folks something about this stinks to the high heavens. &nbsp;It may not be illegal. But it certainly is very bad manners. That&rsquo;s my take. @YvonneOkwara ALSO READ: Losing MPs plot to shoot down Judith Pareno&rsquo;s nomination to EALA