The decision by Johnstone Muthama not to defend his seat leaves the Machakos senatorial race to three candidates. Former Cabinet minister Mutua Katuku of People&#39;s Trust Party (PTP), IT expert Winfred Mutua of Jubilee Party and Maendeleo Chap Chap&#39;s Carlos Kioko will battle it out for the seat in the August 8 polls. Mr Muthama, who acrimoniously announced his decision to quit the race citing dictatorship by Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka in the party nominations, was largely touted as &quot;an unbeatable candidate&quot; in the Machakos senatorial race by both his foes and admirers. It was largely expected that the senator would defend his seat on a Wiper party ticket, but the fierce critic of the Jubilee government threw in the towel with ferocious attacks against Kalonzo. &quot;I will not vie for any position anywhere in Ukambani. I will seek NASA votes in Garissa, Wajir, Kisumu and Western; not here (Ukambani). But for Raila, I will campaign for him until my mouth dries up,&quot; Muthama told local reporters at his Maanzoni ranch in Machakos County on Monday afternoon. His exit now sets the stage for a brand new perspective of the county&#39;s senatorial race. ALSO READ: Jubilee dismisses most petitions on primaries Ms Mutua said she was confident of winning the election irrespective of whether Muthama was in the race or not. &quot;I am not energised by his (Muthama) exit at all. What drives me is the urge to offer the people of Machakos leadership and effectively address the gaps that thrived under Muthama&#39;s leadership,&quot; she said. And Mr Katuku, a former Muthama ally who lost to Alfred Mutua in the Wiper governor nominations in 2013, has planned a political comeback and vowed to defeat all his opponents. &quot;I pledge to undertake the role of oversight for the county resources in a mature manner,&quot; said Katuku. Mr Kioko, who has been aggressively campaigning on social media platforms, said he was the best man to replace Muthama and would address rampant unemployment among the youth if elected the next senator of Machakos.