The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC), the National Police Service Commission (NPSC) and other stakeholders on May 9 launched &lsquo;The 2017 Elections Security Arrangement Program&rsquo; &ndash; an initiative aimed at helping the electoral body conduct free, fair and credible polls. Speaking at Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC) Tuesday, IEBC Chair Wafula Chebukati announced that campaigns officially kick of on May 28. &ldquo;Campaigns will be starting in May 28 and there are signs of confrontations but we are ready for that. We expect increased collaboration between the police and IEBC. This program will further help us promote peace and monitor elections to Kenyans&rsquo; expectations,&rdquo; said the IEBC Chair. NPSC announced that 180,000 security officers will be trained on maintaining peace and order during elections, starting next week. IPOA Chair-Macharia Njeru lauded the police on their conduct during the recently concluded party primaries, saying that they executed their duties commendably, despite the chaos witnessed. He urged police officers to replicate their performance as the country heads towards the August 8 polls, noting that security forces will play a key role in maintenance of peace during the electoral period. ALSO READ: Why Oburu Oginga quit quest for key EAC job The Judiciary has also been involved in the multi-sectorial intervention, and, so far, 92 magistrates have already been trained on handling poll disputes. Constitutionally, disgruntled candidates are required to file disputes within 4 days of the announcement of the results. Noting that there had already been numerous disputes during the nominations, Justice Mbogholi Msagha said that the Judiciary is anticipating a spike in the number poll petitions filed this year. &ldquo;We expect more petitions in this year&rsquo;s elections and we are ready for that. We have also engaged the office of IG and they have assured as that we will be accorded maximum security,&rdquo; said Justice Msagha. On his part, NCIC Chairperson Francis Ole Kaparo urged politicians to conduct peaceful campaigns, stating that candidates&rsquo; campaign conduct can either polarise or unite the country. Independent Policing and Oversight Authority (IPOA), Office of the Registrar of Political Parties, High Court justices, Office of the Director of Public Prosecution, the National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC) and the Office of the Inspector General of Police (IG) were all present at the function.https://citizentv.co.ke/news/were-ready-to-handle-security-ahead-of-polls-iebc-police-165426/ Source: Citizen Digital ALSO READ: Why Oburu Oginga quit quest for key EAC job