Hotels at the Coast are seeking ways to sustain business throughout the year rather than depending on usual seasonal cycles. Led by the Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers and Caterers (KAHC), hoteliers are banking on implementation of legislation enacted by respective Coastal counties regarding entertainment. &quot;The Coast region is drifting into slumber, what is known as low season in tourism. Efforts to have investors remain open over these months have not come to fruition,&rsquo;&rsquo; said KAHC Coast branch Chief Executive Sam Ikwaye. He said closure of hotels during the low season, which this year set in early in April, is even more expensive now when hotels are shut to cut costs, not to renovate. &quot;It is the hope of many that we can transform the region by re-looking at the basics. One of the hardest-hit regions is Kilifi county where the tourism sector closes as early as April, and some facilities will not be opening until after August elections,&rsquo;&rsquo; said Mr Ikwaye. Formulate laws ALSO READ: Number of rooms in Kenya double as more hotels check in He said the county has not exploited its entertainment potential, especially when it lacks conference facilities to support the industry. &quot;The shutting down of entertainment joints is a sign of an ailing tourism sector,&rsquo;&rsquo; said the official. Counties are expected to formulate and enact necessary legislation to implement the Alcohol Drinks Control Amendment (2010) Act within their jurisdictions. KAHC says it has engaged with various county governments to develop liquor laws based on the County Alcoholic Drinks Control (ADC) Model Law developed by Nacada in 2013. The ADC law was expected to lead to increased compliance, of a level playing ground for investors and clarity on ambiguous clauses. It would also provide for stakeholder representation in county licensing committees. &quot;There in now an initiative by KAHC and the Pubs, Entertainment and Restaurants Association of Kenya to engage in an advocacy programme with Kilifi county to give life to entertainment industry because, if well managed, this will unlock the tourism potential for Kilifi,&rsquo;&rsquo; said Mr Ikwaye. Kahc says enforcement of effective county liquor laws will create a well-regulated industry, safeguard investments and create jobs. This will spur industry and employment growth. ALSO READ: Top hotels rack up Sh1 billion in unpaid loans