Jubilee nominee for Kisii Governor race Chris Obure has exuded confidence that the ruling party will carry the day in the August 8 General Election. With the incumbent James Ongwae facing questions over the management of county funds, Obure in his nomination victory speech warned he will not allow corruption to flourish in the region if elected in August polls and that former officials may be sent to jail over mismanagement of county funds. Obure, who was elected Kisii Senator on ODM ticket in 2013 but defected to Jubilee in September last year, has said that the National Super Alliance (NASA) has no development agenda and is only interested in criticising the government in a bid to remain relevant. &ldquo;They criticise (President) Uhuru&rsquo;s administration even when it has done good things,&rdquo; Senator Chris Obure said recently. Obure said Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto are the best bet for Kenya and Kisii region. &ldquo;They deserve a second chance based on their track record,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi makes U-turn, quits Jubilee The county, which voted 50-50 in the last elections to Cord and Jubilee, has been tilting towards the Opposition, but the nomination of Obure is seen as likely to tip the scales to Jubilee side. Analysis intimates that with Obure&rsquo;s Jubilee nomination, the strategy will be to have Nyaribari people, Abamachoge and Abobasi to vote for him as Governor leaving Ongwae to his Bagetutu people who constitute 30% of the total vote in Kisii County. Obure will fight for the Governor seat with Ongwae (ODM), Manson Nyamweya (KNC), Lumumba Nyaberi (Wiper) and Boniface Omboto (Maendeleo Chap Chap). Obure decamped from ODM citing lack of development agenda, saying the Opposition was a waste of time because Gusii people are getting a raw deal from the government. &quot;Let us join hands and ensure that President Uhuru Kenyatta wins come August,&rdquo; he said. Former Constitution Implementation Commission (CIC) Chairman Charles Nyachae, who is contesting for the Senate seat, said the Gusii community must work with Jubilee so that they benefit from the 2017-2022 government. Obure said Jubilee Party will get overwhelming support from the Gusii region despite ODM claiming it was their stronghold. ALSO READ: Waititu, MP Alice accused of building road on private land &ldquo;The Jubilee Government has initiated a host of infrastructural projects in Gusii and we do not have a single reason to reject Kenyatta. We shall move from village to village to ensure that we are in Government. Time has come for us to play in mainstream politics,&rdquo; said Obure.