The battle lines in western Kenya have been drawn as incumbent leaders face stiff competition for their seats. All eyes will be on the Busia and Kakamega governorship races in the August 8 elections. The contests in the two counties have been touted as two-horse races although other aspirants have insisted that they should not be underestimated. Tough battles are expected between Sospeter Ojaamong (ODM) and Paul Otuoma (independent) in Busia, and Wycliffe Oparanya (ODM) and Boni Khalwale (Ford Kenya) in Kakamega. The Orange party and Ford Kenya are both affiliate parties in the National Super Alliance (NASA) and it remains to be seen how Opposition chief Raila Odinga will campaign in the region. Dr Otuoma ditched ODM after the party primaries, claiming he was rigged out in favour of Mr Ojaamong. ALSO READ: Two MCAs ditch Governor Sospeter Ojaamong's camp But Ojaamong insists that he won the primaries fairly and assured he would clinch the seat even if other candidates ganged up against him. &quot;I am the strongest candidate; that is why they are planning to unite and front one candidate against me. I will still beat them hands down,&quot; said Ojaamong. Otuoma accused the incumbent of failing to initiate development projects, saying the county had lagged behind behind. Other contestants in the race are Michael Oloo (Ford Kenya), Okotch Mondoh (Restore and Build Kenya), Daniel Barasa (Jubilee Party), Humphrey Nakitari (Amani National Congress), Francis Oyatsi (United Democratic Party) and Benjamin Okwara (Maendeleo Democratic Party). Mr Oloo said NASA had fronted several candidates, which might serve the interests of Jubilee or independent candidates. Busia is a cosmopolitan county perceived to be a NASA stronghold. During the last General Election, ODM won the three parliamentary seats - Budalang&#39;i, Funyula and Matayos - while United Republican Party took Teso South and Teso North. ALSO READ: Kakamega MCAs pass Sh13.2 billion budget during special sitting In the last polls, the county negotiated a pre-election democracy to share the various elective seats. Landed positions Butula constituency landed the positions of woman representative, deputy governor and leader of majority. Funyula got the position of speaker of the county assembly while the Senate seat went to the Bakhayo community in Matayos. The Teso region got the governorship. Dr Khalwale has vowed to dethrone Oparanya, claiming he has failed to live up to the expectations of the electorate. &quot;Kakamega receives the second largest share of funds but this is not channelled to development. Oparanya has failed.&quot; Others who want to oust Oparanya are Mabel Muruli (Jubilee), Suleiman Sumba (Kanu), Michael Osundwa (ANC) and Jos Konzolo (UDP).&nbsp; ALSO READ: ODM losers urged to stay put in the party ahead of elections