The US State Department has approved the sale of military hardware worth Sh26 billion to Kenya. Kenya had requested to purchase fighter helicopters, rocket launchers, and ammunition. The package comes with communications and navigation equipment, contractor logistics support, training, US Government technical assistance, airframe and weapon system spare parts support, contractor field service representative support, and special assigned airlift mission flight delivery support. Security cooperation The Defence Security Cooperation Agency delivered the required certification, notifying Congress of this possible sale on May 1, 2017. This notice of a potential sale is required by the law and does not mean the sale has been concluded According to the department, the sale contributes to the foreign policy and national security of the United States by improving the security of Kenya, regarded as a strong regional partner and security leader. It is expected to boost critical operations against Al Shabaab in Somalia. The new helicopters, weapons, ammunition, support items, and technical support will advance Kenya&rsquo;s efforts to conduct scouting and attack operations in support of the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM) assignment. The fighter helicopters will also replace Kenya&rsquo;s aging fleet. This sale will significantly enhance the Kenyan military&rsquo;s modernisation efforts and increase cooperation between the US Armed Forces and other partners in the region. Additionally, a strong national defence and dedicated military force will assist Kenya in its efforts to maintain stability in East Africa. The proposed sale is not expected to alter the basic military balance in the region. Military balance The implementation of the proposed sale will require the assignment of approximately 12 additional contractor representatives in the country for a period of 12 months. The deal comes in the wake of the proposed purchase of Sh43 billion worth of aircraft with weapons and related support. The purchase of 12 Air Tractor AT-802L planes and two AT-504 trainer aircraft has encountered resistance both in the US and locally. The Sh26 billion proposed sale is the latest arms deal from the US that was started under President Barack Obama.