Passengers flying from certain areas of North Africa and the Middle East were in March told they could no longer carry electronics larger than a smartphone on UK and US flights. Royal Jordanian Airlines cheekily responded by offering travellers &ldquo;12 things to do on a 12-hour flight with no tablet or laptop&rdquo;. Number 11 was &ldquo;analyse the meaning of life&rdquo;. It&rsquo;s amusing because the thought of quiet contemplation on a long flight rather than being entertained via a screen is - in today&rsquo;s world - ridiculous. Humans have daydreamed for thousands of years, and yet, these days, spare moments are filled with using our smartphones and other devices, leaving us little time to let our minds wander. And the effects of this on the way our minds work and on our collective creativity could be far-reaching. It could be hindering your ability to come up with fresh, innovative ideas. Give it a rest In 2012, researchers found that letting your mind wander can lead to better creative problem solving. And links between daydreaming and creativity abound. From Einstein to Nobel Prize-winning chemists to the inventor of the Post-it note, many of the world&rsquo;s great thinkers have espoused the benefits of giving your mind a rest. And perhaps you too have noticed that your best ideas come in the shower or while out for a walk. When your mind is able to wander, it is accessing memories, emotions and random bits of stored knowledge, says Amy Fries, author of Daydreams at Work: Wake Up Your Creative Powers. Daydreaming is how we access our big-picture state of mind. This visualisation can help us gain a new perspective on a problem or link two previously disjointed thoughts to come up with an original idea.Yet, we spend an average of 10 hours consuming media on our devices. Scientists conducted a study in which they gave people the option of either sitting alone with no distractions for a period of six to 15 minutes, or enduring a mild electric shock. Many people chose the shock. When your eyes are on your phone, your mind is in a very different state than when it&rsquo;s daydreaming. If you&rsquo;re tapped out for creativity, go for a walk or do some other activity that doesn&rsquo;t require focused attention. Most importantly, give yourself the time and permission to daydream.