Mystery surrounds a Monday night attack on Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party director of communications Philip Etale in Nairobi&rsquo;s city centre. Mr. Etale has narrated how unknown people attacked him with pepper spray along Kimathi Street as he left popular eatery, Ranalo foods. The ODM official, who was in the company of friends, says was walking towards Kenyatta Avenue at about 10pm, when some unknown persons accosted him. He was rushed to Nairobi hospital, where he was treated and discharged later. &ldquo;It was concentrated pepper spray. So painful ordeal. Still asking Questions, but it is WELL. Thank you Doctors&nbsp;&amp; Nurses at Nairobi Hospital,&rdquo; Mr Etale wrote on twitter. In a long post on Facebook, he narrated the ordeal saying it had left him with pain and confusion &ldquo;Last night&#39;s ordeal was heartbreaking. At some point, I almost gave up on life. It was so painful and left me asking many questions. I have woken up still in shock and tears rolling down my cheeks, not that I am not a MAN but because of thinking of the motive behind the attack.&rdquo; ALSO READ: Kisumu Central ODM voters take to the ballot again Etale says he was in the company of friends identified as Phelix G-cord, Eng Onyango Kevin Oliver Mugo at Ronalo and later parted ways with Kevin and Mugo and started walking towards where he had parked his car alongside Phelix who was slightly ahead of him. Philip stopped outside Nation Centre to greet someone who only told him&hellip; &quot;Etale I am from Karatina and I love what you do&rdquo;. &nbsp;&ldquo;I started walking towards CFC Stanbic bank slowly so that I could catch-up with Phelix who had already crossed the road. While in the middle of the road, a small saloon car drove by and I stopped to let it pass. I didn&#39;t see the number of occupants. All of a sudden, just in a split of a second, some pulled out, sprayed some strong substance on my face and directed into my eyes and the car sped off towards Total gas station on Kimathi Street.&rdquo; &ldquo;The substance got me confused and had me start shouting for help. Luckily, Phelix had me scream and came back. He shouted out Kevin&#39;s name and together with Mugo who were walking past the Bata shoe shop, rushed to the scene. I lost my conscious and Phelix reached out to the car as Kevin and Mugo looked for water to clean my eyes. I was in total pain.&rdquo; The doctors said it was highly concentrated pepper spray that people with bad intentions use on their targets. &ldquo;I feel pained. I feel harassed. I feel targeted. I feel so so BAD. But it is well. I don&#39;t want to speculate but leave it to the Almighty God.&rdquo;