Frederick Okinda wrote to The Public Eye expressing disappointment over Royal Mabati Mills&rsquo; failure to deliver goods he had purchased. Mr Okinda said he bought 60 pieces of iron sheets, rubber and wedges on May 14, 2017, and was informed on May 15 that all the items purchased would be delivered on May 19. Regrettably, Okinda said, Royal Mabati did not keep its word. He said a Mr Rono assured him that he should stay put as the items would be delivered. &ldquo;They promised to deliver within 48 hours but it is now more than 10 days. What is happening Royal Mabati?&rdquo; he asked. He feared he would incur huge losses as his almost complete house is &ldquo;crying out&rdquo; for a roof. After writing to us, the Royal Mabati sales manager and the customer care team immediately got in touch with Okinda. Below is their response. &ldquo;Dear Fredrick Okinda, Our sincere apologies for the delays. Indeed, it was not our intention to delay the delivery and the fact our customer care team communicated on the same was a clear indication of the intention to deliver the goods as scheduled. The only problem was after the communication, the customer care team did not inform you the reasons or the timelines for the same, which we sincerely apologise for. The delays, my dear brother, were majorly contributed by delays by our delivery trucks, most of which got stuck as a result of the heavy rains that rendered some of our routes inaccessible. That notwithstanding, we are committed to all our customers&rsquo; needs and we assure you of our sincere commitment to deliver all purchases for free. Once again, I sincerely apologise on behalf of my team, company and myself for the unfortunate and unavoidable mishap. Our team will get in touch with you immediately to advise on the schedule and furnish you with contacts of our driver who will deliver your purchases. I will personally call you thereafter to get feedback from the conversation with our team. Thank you for your feedback and we assure you we will take stock of the shortfall and perfect our esteemed customer roofing needs. Regards, John Otieno, Sales Manager.&rdquo; The customer care team did indeed get in touch with Okinda as shown below: &ldquo;I trust this finds you well. Kindly accept our sincere apologies for the delay in delivery of your order. As per our conversation today, your consignment has been dispatched. Kindly get in touch with our driver Abel Muranga for ease of communication and planning from your end. We are really sorry for the inconvenience caused and this will not happen again. Kinds regards.&rdquo;