A number of independent candidates from Nyanza region have criticised NASA leader Raila Odinga&#39;s call for six-piece voting in the area, terming it divisive. Raila, who spoke during the burial of the mother of former Ombudsman Otiende Amolo, told Nyanza residents to elect only candidates who contest on ODM ticket, arguing that doing so would strengthen the Orange party. He urged independent candidates to shelve their ambitions and support NASA candidates, while asking the electorate to shun those who fail to heed his call. Go partyless But the comments have now angered independent candidates, area residents and a number of voters in Nyanza, who argued that the shambolic party primaries pushed some aspirants to go partyless. Some Nyanza leaders now accused Raila of supporting cartels who perpetrated irregularities in the ODM nominations. ALSO READ: Ferdinand Waititu vows to annul &lsquo;bad&rsquo; laws in Kiambu Mbita parliamentary aspirant Gym Akali Agembe called on the NASA leader to embrace inclusion so as to avoid voter apathy during the coming general election. He questioned why those who had the party ticket were panicking if they genuinely won the primaries. &quot;I have over half of Mbita voters supporting my bid and they were infuriated by the bungled primaries, which denied me the party ticket,&quot; said Agembe. His Kasipul counterparts Okindo Majiwa and Isaac Ongiri who lost in ODM parliamentary primaries urged Raila not to shun independent candidates. Majiwa urged Raila to put a lot of effort in seeking votes for his presidential bid in regions where he has less support in Kenya. &quot;Everybody in Luo Nyanza has Raila&#39;s vote and he does not need to come here or campaign for any candidate. Let him go to other regions and seek votes,&quot; said Majiwa. Ongiri expressed concern that Raila&#39;s effort to discriminate ODM candidates may culminate in unprecedented voter apathy in Nyanza. ALSO READ: Raila creates new think tank to spearhead campaigns &quot;I am appealing to Raila to let Nyanza residents elect leaders of their own choice. His presidential bid is more important than who wins the other seats,&quot; said Ongiri. The Secretary of Luo Council of Elders in Homa Bay County Joram Okola said Raila should have instead apologised to area voters for irregularities in ODM nominations. Head of a Civil Society, Homa Bay County Bunge la Wenye Nchi Walter Opiyo, challenged Raila to make comments that would unite voters in Nyanza rather than divide them. &quot;We expected Raila to speak in a way that can unite disgruntled voters to support NASA as Mudavadi and Kalonzo did on Saturday,&quot; said Mr Opiyo. This came as some of the ODM candidates received a cold reception in their electoral areas. In Kabondo Kasipul constituency, ODM parliamentary candidate Eve Obara got a cold reception while area MP Silvance Osele, who is defending the seat as an independent candidate, was happily received. And in Migori, governorship aspirant Ochilo Ayacko has advised NASA, and especially ODM brigade, to channel their energies towards bringing down the real enemies or &quot;their journey will be faced by self-imposed hiccups&quot;. &quot;NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga is on record saying he has one bullet left, let him aim it at the clear enemies, not potential friends,&quot; Ayacko said. ALSO READ: Ferdinand Waititu vows to annul &lsquo;bad&rsquo; laws in Kiambu Awendo MP Jared Kopiyo, who lost in the ODM primaries and is seeking to retain his seat as an independent candidate, said Raila&#39;s fears were unfounded. He lost the ODM ticket in 2013, decamped to Ford Kenya ticket and won the seat. &quot;I am yet to hear of an independent candidate in Nyanza that is not supporting Raila&#39;s presidency,&quot; Kopiyo said. Suna West constituency independent aspirant Peter Masara said the partyless candidates had the capacity to drive Raila to State House. &quot;Even Raila himself admitted the nominations were shambolic and has asked for reconciliation. I think his castigation for independents was meant for Siaya because in Migori the independents are more popular,&quot; he said.