As a business owner, one of the most valuable tools you have is information. Knowing the news, trends and ideas relevant to your industry can give you a significant edge over your competitors, and ultimately improve your bottom line. It can also contribute immensely to your self-development as an entrepreneur. With the many tasks we have to face down in today&rsquo;s world, it&rsquo;s no wonder many of us risk being totally disconnected from the world. Thankfully, apps have come to the rescue. Our smartphones are almost always in our hands and can be convenient, on-the-go sources of news and information. The apps we&rsquo;ll look at today are news aggregators. Some collate the news as it comes, while some use algorithms to tailor the content to your tastes so that you essentially never get tired of the content. Pocket Pocket, as its name suggests, is a news storage app that helps you to store interesting news that you may have stumbled across during your surfing of the interwebs but couldn&rsquo;t really spare time to read at the time. This means that the work of aggregating the stories you want to read is left to you. You can start enjoying Pocket by installing what it calls a bookmarklet - an extension on your browser available for free download on Pocket&rsquo;s website. With a simple and easy-to-use interface, Pocket gives you access through your mobile device or computer to stored stories, and lets you bookmark, archive or even recommend articles to your friends. The app is available on all mobile platforms for free. Flipboard Flipboard is an easy-to-use magazine-style app that is so popular that some phone manufacturers bundle it as pre-installed software when you get a new device. Flipboard essentially works by aggregating stories based on a given set of predetermined subjects that it asks you to choose. As the name suggests, you go through randomised stories by flipping through the app&rsquo;s pages as you would a real magazine. Through Flipboard, you can also log in to your social media accounts and let your friends&rsquo; posts appear as news items in the app, saving you those all-important seconds it takes to change apps as you seek to find out what Jane had for dinner at that restaurant on Wednesday night #TeamWinning #FoodIsBae. News 360 Of these three apps, I find this one the most interesting. News 360 collates news items from all over the Internet. Its difference from the other aggregators is how it does this. The app uses an algorithm that studies the stories you like reading and searches for similar content as you continue reading. It&rsquo;s easy to use, offers rich content and essentially takes the work out of choosing what to read, but still tries to stay true to what&rsquo;s relevant to you.