&nbsp; The verification of the voter register began Thursday. Voters confirm whether they are registered and whether details given against their Identity Card numbers are correct. There have been instances in the past when voters have been turned away on voting day because their names were missing from the voters&rsquo; roll. Such incidents dent the credibility of any electoral process by giving rise to unnecessary litigation. It is important that the public gets sensitised on the 30-day exercise to guarantee as little distractions on the actual voting day as possible. The conclusion of this exercise will aid the compilation of a credible master voter register, which audit firm KPMG is currently working on. This has been a major cause of friction between the Opposition and Jubilee; each side accusing the other of planning to rig the elections. Memories from 2007/08 where a contested election nearly sunk the country, are still fresh in our minds. There is therefore no room for failure. IEBC must get it right at all stages. Caught between salvos fired by Jubilee and the Opposition, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has, nonetheless, to continue with preparations that leave no room for complaints of foul play. For it is the wish of most Kenyans that the elections get conducted in a transparent, free, fair and credible manner. Measures must be taken not just to ensure rigging does not take place, but also to assuage any fears of rigging. If any side has to lose, it has to be fairly, leaving no room for contestation. ALSO READ: Kidero meets elders in bid to win Kamba vote It is laudable that IEBC has taken measures that guarantee the integrity of the elections. It is welcome that polling stations will not share gadgets as was the case in 2013. A limited and manageable number of voters per station aids easy monitoring. More critical will be the way the tallying and announcement of results are made. Gadgets sometimes fail, but it is comforting that the IEBC has made contingency plans to address this.