Bad weather has been blamed for current shortages in sugar and maize. It has been conveniently blamed for soaring food prices. Government functionaries, responding to public outcry, point out there was drought and that it occasioned poor yields last year, but there are pointers to other factors besides nature. In October 2016 when the price of Unga was approaching Sh100 for a two kilogrammes packet, the Government gave instructions to the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) to release one million bags of maize from the strategic grain reserves to help in lowering prices, but seemingly, nothing happened since prices have continued on an upward spiral to hit Sh180 per two kilogramme packet of maize flour. Sugar is retailing at Sh190 per kilogramme. In his budget presentation speech, Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich gave an assurance, having zero rated maize imports, the prices of maize flour would come down within a week, but that, more than a month later, is yet to happen. This helps in reinforcing the belief gaining currency that there are powerful cartels hoarding maize and sugar with the express aim of driving prices through the roof in a bid to make a killing. This being an election year, fingers are pointing at the Government, citing inability to govern and, in extreme cases that may not reflect the truth, a scheme to raise funds for campaigns. Indeed, Kenya is a society where faceless cartels have been calling the shots for decades, yet successive governments have completely been unable to rein them in. It is easy to guess why. A group of individuals capable of creating a serious national shortage of basic food commodities as seen now must be enjoying political protection at the highest possible levels. Any lesser person attempting such would find himself or herself behind bars soon enough. Government has the wherewithal to stabilise the situation, and because it exists for Wanjiku, it must do so with haste. Politicising commodity prices does not help Wanjiku&rsquo;s cause. ALSO READ: Why milk prices may not drop soon