A Kenyan businessman based in china has thrown himself into politics and promises to use his connections to turn around the lives of his electorates. Ben Sigilai, an exporter of local products to China who is running as independent candidate for the Sotik parliamentary seat says that he wants to invest in empowering youths and women and ensure their lives are uplifted. &quot;I will actually want to share my experience so that we start developing faster. I understood Chinese policies and culture and we can borrow a lot from them, they are now everywhere in the world building and construction and various advanced technologies,&quot; said Sigilai. Sigilai said that he stayed in china for close to 6 years and after graduating with master&#39;s graduate in computer science; multimedia major at Central South University School of Information Science and engineering he was retained by Chinese friends and has since widely networked. &quot;After graduating in 2013, I was requested by Chinese friends to remain in china so that I can facilitate trade opportunities for Chinese companies interested in investing in Kenya,&quot; said Sigilai who previously graduated from Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and technology Kenya with bachelor&#39;s degree in Information Technology. ALSO READ: UhuRuto heckled in Kilifi over maize meal He said in 2014 he brought in a delegation of four Chinese who were interested in Beef, mutton, lamb, chicken feet, hides and skins exports. &quot;I have been trying to facilitate and there are many challenges that have led me to join politics, another key reason is to develop my hometown by facilitating investors to set up industries in Sotik,&quot; said Sigilai. Sigilai says that among the development partners that he has brought to Kenya include Zorro Shi Group of Zj-Link Hk Ltd , they are distributing fiber optic and accessories with plans to set up a plant within a year. &quot;Others are Mr Xie group who is key partner in donkey slaughterhouse in Motio Baringo, Mr Haiwen group who are interested in beef processing and Mr He Hong Zhong interested in chili processing in Kericho,&quot; notes Sigilai. The businessman said that he decided to join as independent because my main aim is to facilitate investors and change the way things are done and would not like to be bogged down with party ideologies that may not be in line with his intention. Sigilai says that his campaign will be geared to empowering the young people to not only be job seekers but investors and also invest in preventive health, quality education, advanced food security, industries, domestic tourism, talent promotion and benchmarking with china &quot;I will push for various policy targeting various groups. I target mostly the youth, because they are affected by unemployment when it comes to industries and talent promotion,&quot; said Sigilai. ALSO READ: Keter speaks on poll lock-out push