The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission detectives raided the homes of top National Land Commission officials in a probe into claims of corruption in the payment of Standard Gauge Railways (SGR) money. Among those whose Nairobi homes were raided include Chairman Muhammad Swazuri and vice chair Abigael Mbagaya. Almost all other commissioners&rsquo; homes were also raided in the exercise staged Thursday morning. EACC officials said their probe into the claims are ongoing and they are looking for evidence. Also affected was the home of the valuation and Taxation Director Salome Munubi, director of finance Francis Mugo, manager Mary Ngundo among others. Other officials were summoned to the EACC offices for questioning as the probe into the claims gathers pace. ALSO READ: NLC chairman Swazuri links his ouster bid to cartels Ms Mbagaya confirmed some officials had been to her Nairobi home but she was away. &ldquo;I am out of the city but I am informed some officials came and conducted a search. They did not find anything during the morning incident,&rdquo; she said. More officers are under probe into the claims. Payments made in respect of compensation of SGR are said to have been riddled with corruption. This is being probed by among others, Parliament, police and EACC. The officials took away documents to facilitate their investigation, but there was no arrest made. Swazuri has been under a parliamentary committee investigation following a complaint by former journalist Mugo Njeru who claimed he bribed him to facilitate compensation of his prime land. Njeru and his wife Edith Wairimu accused Swazuri of demanding a bribe of Sh1.2 million to be compensated for their land which the government acquired for the Standard Gauge Railway project. The petitioner&rsquo;s 80 acres is located off Mombasa Road in Nairobi and the committee was told that a surveyor from the Lands Ministry mapped out the disputed land and wrote a report confirming that he was the owner. ALSO READ: NLC chairman Swazuri links his ouster bid to cartels Swazuri has denied the claims and insists that the parliamentary committee did not have powers to investigate allegations of bribery and corruption as the mandate exclusively belongs to the police and EACC. &ldquo;By purporting to do so, the committee is acting in excess of jurisdiction by usurping the exclusive roles of the police and EACC,&rdquo; he argued. He has challenged the parliamentary probe.