From left, seated: Polycarp Igathe, Senator Mike Sonko, DP William Ruto and Senator Johnston Sakaja during the unveiling of Sonko&rsquo;s running mate in the Nairobi governorship race. [Wilberforce Okwiri, Standard] Jubilee Party Wednesday expressed confidence that it would wrest Nairobi County from Governor Evans Kidero on August 8. Deputy President William Ruto said Senator Mike Sonko and his running mate Polycarp Igathe, who was officially named Wednesday, would deliver the strategic seat to the ruling coalition. By Mr Ruto choosing to personally present the party nomination certificate to Mr Sonko at the party&#39;s headquarters, Jubilee showed its resolve to win the seat currently held by the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party. Ruto said the party had succeeded in presenting &quot;a dynamic duo&quot; that understood the city and its challenges. &quot;I can say that we have a dynamic duo in Nairobi. I can also say we have put up a winning team for the city,&quot; he said. ALSO READ: Chris Obure roots for Jubilee win in Kisii The DP pledged the party&#39;s support for Sonko and his running mate. &quot;The two have our support and the things we have wanted to do as Jubilee for Nairobi, we now have the people to help us deliver on our manifesto.&quot; The Nairobi seat is emerging as one of the most hotly contested, with both Jubilee and the National Super Alliance (NASA) strategising to either win or retain it due to its political and economic influence. NASA retained Dr Kidero and Jonathan Mueke in the nominations, the pair that beat The National Alliance (TNA) candidate Ferdinand Waititu in 2013. While highlighting his agenda for the city county Wednesday, Sonko took a swipe at Kidero for failing to deliver his pre-election pledges. The senator cited corruption, garbage, poor drainage, land grabbing and insecurity as some of the issues the Kidero administration had failed to address and which he promised to tackle if he won the seat. New image ALSO READ: Chris Obure roots for Jubilee win in Kisii The controversial politician who has since cut a new image for himself after dropping his erstwhile streetwise and combative demeanour, said his choice of running mate was informed by his resolve to run an effective administration. &quot;I have brought on board a technocrat who will work alongside other professionals to deliver on our mandate,&quot; said Sonko. He promised to fix the city&#39;s drainage menace in his first 100 days in office. [email&#160;protected]