19 people have perished in a road accident involving a passenger bus and trailer at Mbaruk area along Naivasha-Nakuru highway. Rift Valley Traffic Enforcement Officer Zero Arome who led rescue operations immediately after the accident occurred at 3am said the accident involved a bus which was heading to Busia and two trailers. &ldquo;The bus was overtaking a small vehicle and come head on with a trailer. At the same time, another trailer which was following the bus hit it from behind,&rdquo; said Arome. He said he had counted 13 bodies which were strewn on the road while a dozen others were trapped in the bus which had its right side completely ripped off. Photo by Suleiman Mbatiah &nbsp;A survivor who did not wish to be identified said the 52 seater bus KCG 992C christened Flashlink was carrying more than its capacity. The bus belongs to Superhighway Sacco and plies the Githurai 45 route. &ldquo;The bus was overloaded as there were a number of conductors standing,&rdquo; he said. He said they had been booked into Kawere bus but the conductors forced them to board the ill-fated bus at around 11pm at Machakos bus station shortly before starting the journey to Busia at midnight. ALSO READ: Jealous girlfriend kills love rival in horror car chase The survivor said despite protest by passengers that they were not going to board the bus, the conductors refused to refund them the bus fare they had paid. &ldquo;We demanded to have our fare reimbursed because the bus we had booked was not there but the conductors refused forcing us to board the bus,&rdquo; said the man who was visibly shaken. Mr Arome said police officers were still counting the bodies as some were trapped in the mangled wreck. &nbsp;&ldquo;There are more bodies in the bus and we are removing them one by one as most have been mutilated so that we ascertain the number of people who perished,&rdquo; said Arome. He said the injured were rushed to St. Mary&rsquo;s hospital adding that they had information that the bus driver survived and escaped immediately after the accident.