President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition flag-bearer Raila Odinga&rsquo;s camps are divided on how to deal with independent candidates, putting the two presidential front runners at a crossroads. While Uhuru and Raila are keen&nbsp; to ensure high voter turnout in their strongholds for their bids, the unprecedented number of independent candidates has created a force that could cause voter apathy if not well handled. ODM National Chairman John Mbadi and Treasurer Timothy Bosire were yesterday sharply divided on how the party should handle the former Raila allies, with one saying the Orange party would go out to campaign against independents and the other calling for a middle ground in dealing with them. Mr Mbadi said the losers in the primaries should not seek sympathy from ODM after resigning to run as independents, stating that they are no different from Jubilee opponents. &ldquo;There will be no voter apathy anywhere in our strongholds because of the independents. People in ODM areas turn out to vote because of the party leader, Raila. No sympathy ALSO READ: Kenya's top leaders once paid rent in Eastlands estates &ldquo;Let them seek votes as independents but they should not expect sympathy from ODM while at the same time fighting ODM candidates for the same seats,&rdquo; said Mbadi. But Mr Bosire said he was leading a section of ODM nominees in pursuing a middle ground on how to deal with the candidates so as to avert any possibility of voter apathy. He urged NASA&#39;s leaders to look at the &ldquo;bigger picture of winning the presidency and not individual interests&rdquo;. Bosire, who was awarded a direct ticket by ODM to defend his Kitutu Masaba seat, said since the primaries were shambolic, the party should not antagonise its former leaders. &ldquo;We should try as much as possible to accommodate them because they are pursuing their rights which they did not get in the primaries. We must choose our words carefully, otherwise we may spoil our main agenda of forming the next government,&rdquo; said Bosire. On Tuesday, Raila explained that he had no issues with independent candidates but was duty-bound as a candidate of a political party to support those in ODM to avoid conflict of interest. &ldquo;I have not condemned independent candidates. It is their right to leave the party and run as independents. But it would be a conflict of interest if I campaigned for independents and left out my ODM flag-bearers,&rdquo; said Raila. ALSO READ: Uhuru lays foundation for Africa&rsquo;s tallest building in Nairobi There is a similar divide in Jubilee, with some of the winners in the primaries rubbishing calls by the independent candidates that they be accommodated. On one hand, Jubilee leaders are keen to campaign for party nominees to ensure they get the numbers to command the leadership of the Senate and the National Assembly. They also see the independent candidates as crucial in shoring up their numbers, which would be crucial in determining the presidential vote. In the 2013 polls, Uhuru hit the 50-per-cent-plus-one-vote target by just 8,000 votes, making every vote crucial for the ruling party&#39;s bid for another five-year term. Although Uhuru has been silent over the matter, his deputy, William Ruto, on Sunday while in Mandera, said Jubilee respects everybody campaigning for the President&rsquo;s bid. &ldquo;The independent people and all the others, we respect you for supporting us,&rdquo; he said. National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale and nominated MP Johnson Sakaja have, however, told off the independent candidates who are making demands on the ruling coalition. Swing areas ALSO READ: I don&rsquo;t regret supporting Jubilee, says Ababu Namwamba Mr Sakaja told The Standard that the party had no problems with independents in its strongholds but would campaign against those running in swing areas. &ldquo;Jubilee Party will not entertain independent candidates in swing areas because they will end up dividing pro-Jubilee votes to the advantage of our main opponents. &ldquo;In areas like Nairobi, Nakuru, and Mombasa, which we consider swing, we will campaign against independent candidates claiming to be sympathetic to our presidential candidate,&rdquo; said Sakaja as he dismissed the notion that failing to embrace the candidates might occasion voter apathy. &ldquo;Which independent candidate is more popular than President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy William Ruto in Central and Rift Valley? None! There is no vote they will bring to Jubilee which Uhuru and Ruto cannot mobilise,&rdquo; he said.