National Super Alliance NASA flag bearer Raila Odinga has warned that should he be elected President, he will deal with those who inflated the cost of the launched Standard Gauge Railway (SGR). While congratulating the Jubilee administration for completing the project, Raila equally told&nbsp;President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto not to use the project as a campaign tool, citing that it was initiated during the Grand Coalition government. The NASA presidential hopeful said that the grand coalition administration initiated the project with the Chinese government, tendered it at a cost of Sh227 billion but when the Jubilee government came in, it re-tendered and inflated the cost. &quot;Jubilee should not use SGR as a campaign agenda because we initiated it. This project is for Kenyans and not Jubilee&#39;s. The project was inflated and we shall deal with those responsible when we form government, &quot;said Raila. The NASA leader made the remarks after receiving a delegation of leaders who have since decamped from Jubilee to the Orange party. He also opposed President Kenyatta&#39;s directive that those caught vandalizing the railway line should be killed. ALSO READ: Celebrities in a major concert to celebrate SGR at KICC tonight &#39;&#39;Those who shall be found guilty of having vandalized such key projects will be hanged. Acts of vandalism on key principal projects are economic saboteurs and this is a capital offense whose punishment is death,&#39;&#39; President Kenyatta had warned. In the past week close to ten people have been arrested in Voi, Mariakani and Athi River trying to vandalize the SGR line. Several people have been charged over the same. Although Raila supported action be taken against the culprits, he opposed killing of suspects without trial, adding that any suspect is innocent until proven guilty by a competent court of law. &quot;This is Kenyans project and nobody should destroy it. If anybody is caught, should be arrested and prosecuted according to the law. The order of shoot to kill is long gone, &quot;said Raila. The Opposition leader also criticized the Jubilee administration for blocking Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho from attending the official launch of the train services. Raila said that the project belongs to all Kenyans and Governor Joho should not have been barred or blocked from the official launch. He said that as Opposition they have never opposed the project but were concerned that the project was inflated by a few individuals yet Kenyans will pay. ALSO READ: This is what Sh327 billion SGR means to Kenyans &quot;It&#39;s wrong to block any Kenyan from attending the launch of such a project. It is Kenyans who will pay with their taxes. Governor Joho was attending in his capacity because it was being launched in his County,&quot; said Raila.