The police and electoral officials Tuesday had a hard time controlling thousands of politicians who wanted to be cleared to run as independents. Police officers backed by security guards had to lock the gate to the office of Registrar of Political Parties Lucy Ndung&rsquo;u to control those who accessed the premises. It took the intervention of Ms Ndung&rsquo;u, who addressed the aspirants, to cool them down and reassure them that they would be attended to. The aspirants who want to vie as independents for governorship, parliamentary and Member of County Assembly (MCA) seats were later taken to the parking space of Bavaria Gardens Restaurant in order to control them. Official&rsquo;s direction Ms Ndung&rsquo;u then directed that the politicians be sent to her office in batches of 20 to be attended to. ALSO READ: Opinion: It's not business as usual, elected leaders must deliver services &ldquo;It is hectic here. I can&rsquo;t even make or receive a call or reply to an SMS. We have close to 4,000 requests and the number keeps increasing,&rdquo; Ms Ndung&rsquo;u said. She noted aspirants wishing to vie as independents have until Sunday to be cleared by her office. &ldquo;The process is ongoing between 8am and 5pm on working days,&rdquo; the registrar said. To be cleared to run as an independent, an aspirant should submit an application letter requesting clearance, a copy of identity card and Sh500 to be used as search fee to confirm the symbol one wants to use. For efficiency, candidates are encouraged to submit a symbol (printed and a soft copy on&nbsp; CD) they intend to use for verification before submission to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC). Among those who were seen at the registrar&rsquo;s office seeking to be cleared was Kirinyaga Governor Joseph Ndathi. Mr Ndathi was beaten by former Devolution Cabinet Secretary Anne Waiguru in the Jubilee Party nominations but he disputed the results. ALSO READ: Opinion: Did Kalonzo miss the bigger picture in NASA leadership deal? Others who have declared interest to vie as independents are Nakuru Governor Kinuthia Mbugua and former Nacada Chairman John Mututho who unsuccessfully participated in the Jubilee Party nominations. Funyula MP Paul Otuoma, who competed with Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong, Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma, Taita Taveta Governor John Mruttu and West Mugirango MP James Gesami, will participate in the August 8 polls as independents. Nairobi Jubilee governorship aspirant Peter Kenneth, who lost to Senator Mike Sonko, has also promised to be on the ballot paper in August as an independent. In Uasin Gishu, businessman Zedekiah Bundotich Kiprop (Buzeki), Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo and musician Charles Njagua (Jaguar) will run as independents. This is in line with section 32 and 33 of the Elections Act that requires aspirants intending to contest as independent candidates to submit name and symbol to the commission for approval. According to IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati, the aspirants have until Monday to file the symbols at the commission offices. The names and symbols of independent candidates will then be published in the Kenya Gazette by May 13. ALSO READ: Opinion: Did Kalonzo miss the bigger picture in NASA leadership deal? Independent candidates will be required to establish a fully functional and running office and furnish IEBC with details of its physical address for purposes of inspection. Similarly, they are required by law to have a certificate approved by IEBC showing they do not subscribe to any political party three months prior to the elections. Pete Ondeng, who is the founder and chairman of the Lead Africa Foundation, and Michael Wainana are running for presidency as independent candidates. They are required to give formal notice to the Clerk of the National Assembly as enunciated in Article 14 of the Political Parties Act. Meanwhile, former Kisumu MP Eric Gur Sungu rescinded his decision to run as an independent candidate. &ldquo;I am not interested in going it alone. I will not run as an independent candidate,&rdquo; he clarified.