Samuel Abisai, the winner of SportPesa mega jackpot arrived in Kakamega town in style. The 28-year-old who bagged Sh221 million jackpot, the biggest payout ever in African gaming history, arrived at Kakamega&rsquo;s Bukhungu Stadium some minutes past noon. Samuel Abisai board this band new mercerize after winning biggest jackpot ever in Kenya. The crowd had waited eagerly before the man of the moment arrived. And then it was all fun. Boda boda operators joined the convoy along the Kakamega &ndash; Webuye Road. Blaring sirens and Isukuti drums filled the air as the convoy entered the packed stadium. Abisai who was accompanied by his parents and SportPesa officials arrived in a convoy of cars. He was led to the VIP tent by a team of bouncers. Samuel Abisai with his parents Abisai Mavinda and Margaret Anene at Bukhungu stadium in Kakamega during his home coming on May 6, 2017 On the dias, the young man was flanked by his mother Magaret Mabunda and father Abisai Mabunda. ALSO READ: Has Sh221 million jackpot winner found a new home? Kenyans politicizes anything As the event went on, a happy&nbsp;Abisai joined the dancers. The MC of the day Prof Eshuya, kept the guests entertained as he hyped the event in readiness for&nbsp;Abisai&rsquo;s grand speech. When he rose to speak, Abisai, said he will use part of the cash to assist the poor in Sichirai Slums where he grew up. &ldquo;I attended Mwiyala Primary school where we learnt in a harsh environment. My father sells ropes and has braved rain and scorching un to fend for me and my siblings. I am humbled that you came to celebrate with me today,&rdquo; he said. Father sells ropes Abisai also said he would help talented slum youths in Kakamega by setting up a football academy in collaboration with SportPesa. &ldquo;Our youths have potential to grow into responsible individuals but poverty has denied them that chance. I will use part of the money I won to support talented young people.&rdquo; ALSO READ: Woman regrets her decision to ignore SportPesa Mega Jackpot winner His mother narrated how she miraculously got healed after receiving news of her son&rsquo;s win. &ldquo;I was in hospital when a nurse informed me that my son was featured on television and had won a lot of money. He put me on a wheelchair so I could move near the TV. Tears of joy flowed when I saw my son on TV,&rdquo; she said. She described Abisai as a hardworking and focused person. &ldquo;He is very disciplined and a go-getter. After primary school, he joined Musingu High School and later University of Nairobi after posting good results,&rdquo; Margaret said. And for the youth Abisai had a parting shot:&nbsp; &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t bet with your school fees or money meant for food. Do it responsibly and with conviction.&rdquo; SportPesa marketing boss Jacklyn Kibe said the company will offer free finance consultancy services to Abisai in the long term.