A canvas portrait with images of the National Super Alliance (NASA) principals was set on fire in protest during a Jubilee Party rally held in the city Monday. Supporters of the two leading political sides yesterday clashed outside Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC) as President Uhuru Kenyatta presented his papers for clearance to the electoral commission. What was expected to be a calm event on a gloomy day saw supporters of Jubilee and the Opposition exchange words and later throwing stones at each other. The clash happened a just few minutes after 3:30pm, as the President, his Deputy William Ruto and their entourage made their way to KICC. The supporters had traversed the city through Jogoo Road, where Uhuru addressed residents in Doonholm to counter NASA&#39;s Sunday rally. The exchange happened outside Nakumatt City Hall as police officers turned a blind eye lest they disrupted the ongoing main event at KICC. ALSO READ: Ignore independents and vote for ODM candidates, locals urged The two sides threw stones at each other, holding the city at ransom for some time. Several motorists also found themselves stranded. The situation was, however, saved by rain, which sent the warring battalions scampering for cover. Jubilee supporters had come out branded and armed with umbrellas, ready for the dark clouds that threatened to disrupt the event. Despite the gloomy weather, some security agents retained their dark glasses, perhaps to make any troublemakers feel intimidated. Journalists taking still and video pictures had booked themselves vantage positions - like snipers - so as not to miss a single shot of the President&#39;s date with the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. Businesses housed in KICC also came to a standstill as workers peeped out of the windows for a glimpse of the head of State. At one point, Mathare MP Steve Kariuki threw jabs at Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero, claiming he was timidly following the rally from a window at City Hall, which is located opposite KICC. ALSO READ: Jubilee, NASA supporters clash outside KICC