Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoki says he has no personal differences with Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama and his Kitui counterpart David Musila. Kalonzo says he has in fact spoken with Muthama and agreed that the latter should now concentrate on Nation Super Alliance (NASA) presidential campaigns. Muthama and Musila, who are both former Kalonzo allies, have quit Wiper after falling out with the former Vice President, accusing him of working with their opponents. Musila will now vie for Kitui governor as an independent candidate while Muthama will defend his seat also as an independent.&nbsp; Last week, Muthama threatened to reveal &ldquo;devastating&rdquo; secrets about Kalonzo that would make Kenyans lose sleep. &ldquo;I do not rush into things and you know that. I take my time, but when I do, I do not hold back. What I have and what I am promising to reveal is shocking information that will shake the whole country,&rdquo; he said. But the NASA presidential flag-bearer&rsquo;s running mate yesterday said he has no skeletons in his political closet and there were no secrets that could shock Kenyans about his life. ALSO READ: IEBC dilemma as credibility fears jolt poll preparations &ldquo;I have no secrets, I have played clean politics, the only important thing is that I will lead my team to beat Jubilee in the first round in the coming elections,&rdquo; Kalonzo told Sunday Standard. He said he had played peaceful and mature politics that always endear him to Kenyans and now &ldquo;I&rsquo;m at my best to send Jubilee home&rdquo;. &ldquo;I wrote in my book what people did not know about me. All I have done in my political life are above board,&rdquo; he said. Kalonzo has teamed up with ODM leader Raila Odinga, Musalia Mudavadi of Amani National Congress, Senator Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula of Ford Kenya and Governor Isaac Ruto of Chama Cha Mashinani in a bid to dethrone President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto. Kalonzo said Musila is still an integral part of Wiper and he is going &ldquo;nowhere&rdquo;. &ldquo;Musila has gone nowhere. In fact, we have not picked anyone to replace him as the party chairman. After the election, he can still take back his seat,&rdquo; said Kalonzo. As for Muthama, Kalonzo said the Machakos Senator is a strong pillar of Wiper and still represents the party in the NASA national coordinating committee. Kalonzo spoke highly of Muthama and Musila as&nbsp;mature politicians who were principled and their resolve is steadfast to ensure a NASA victory. ALSO READ: About-turn: Muthama and Kalonzo reconcile &ldquo;The few MPs in Ukambani who defected and Machakos governor are the only ones on the wrong side of history as far as Ukambani politics is concerned,&rdquo; he said. Scuttle Opposition Kalonzo said their focus now as the NASA team was to win the presidency in first round. &ldquo;We want to help Jubilee by winning this election. It&rsquo;s proving painful for them to continue leading. With the kind of challenges they have gone through, they surely must want to rest after August,&rdquo; he said. The Wiper leader dismissed the notion that Jubilee could have been using his key allies to attempt to scuttle the Opposition&rsquo;s unity. &ldquo;Decisions have been made and we have moved. Ukambani and beyond is in NASA&rsquo;s grip,&rdquo; said Kalonzo. While downplaying the fallout with his close allies, Kalonzo said he has kept a cordial relationship with all political leaders he has interacted with, including Uhuru and Ruto. ALSO READ: Post-election disputes and what they say about our democracy &ldquo;Kenyans know I am a bridge, I can speak with everyone across the political divide,&rdquo; he said. [email&#160;protected]