The Opposition on Sunday threatened to boycott the August 8 polls if tallying at the constituency level would not be deemed final. The National Super Alliance (NASA) leaders said they would not accept any Court of Appeal ruling that overturns a High Court ruling that presidential results declared at the constituency were final. Presidential candidate Raila Odinga accused the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) of advancing the interests of the ruling coalition by appealing against the High Court ruling. &ldquo;IEBC must know we will not be part of the August elections if the court of appeal overturns the decision on presidential results being announced at the constituency level. There will be no elections on August 8,&rdquo; said Odinga. The NASA brigade led by its five principals stormed Nakuru County - one of the Rift Valley Jubilee strongholds- and declared they would form the next government. Political stronghold ALSO READ: Governor Oparanya asks Senator Khalwale to drop his bid Led by Raila, his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka, Senator Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula, Musalia Mudavadi and Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto, the politicians claimed they command more than 10 million votes within their strongholds and were making inroads into the Rift Valley region. The leaders repeated their threat to boycott polls should an appeal filed by IEBC on announcement of presidential results at the constituency level succeed at the Court of Appeal. They restated their position even as the Court of Appeal is expected to hear the case where IEBC wants an appeal challenging the announcement of presidential results from the constituency level as final be determined as a matter of urgency. The high cost of living, rampant corruption in Government and the controversy around importation of 30,000 metric tonnes of maize dominated the speeches. The rally was briefly interrupted by heavy rains that pounded the area in the afternoon just after the five principals arrived at the stadium. The supporters braved the rain to listen to the leaders. Raila, who spoke after Governor Ruto, warned that should the Court of Appeal overturn the law that recognises the announcement of presidential results at the constituency level, then NASA would boycott the elections. ALSO READ: Kisumu Central ODM voters take to the ballot again The Wafula Chebukati-led commission has termed the High Court verdict as an error and wants it set aside. IEBC has filed the appeal on the grounds that the electoral law gives the mandate to announce the presidential results to the IEBC chairman. On his recent trip to Israel, Raila said he prayed at the sacred wall in Jerusalem for a win in the next general election. &ldquo;I was in Israel and prayed at the wailing wall in Jerusalem for Kenya to have change of leadership in August and already we are seeing signs of change,&rdquo; he said. Odinga said the rising cost of living was as a result of poor leadership, saying during his time as prime minister, he and former President Mwai Kibaki planned ahead. &ldquo;As NASA, we will change the country in 90 days by putting interventions that will see the prices of basic food items go down drastically,&rdquo; he said. He reiterated that NASA controlled 10 million plus votes and would safeguard them on election day by stationing five people in every polling station. ALSO READ: MPs told to give Sh290 million for innovation hubs Odinga said NASA decided to hold the rally in Nakuru County because the region defines the country&rsquo;s political agenda every year. Nakuru&rsquo;s politics &ldquo;Nakuru always defines the nation&rsquo;s political agenda every election cycle and it is here that we have decided to begin our journey to oust Jubilee,&rdquo; he said. The alliance vowed to give Jubilee a run for its money on all elective posts in the county. &ldquo;We will liberate Nakuru and ensure that NASA takes the governorship, senatorial and the women representative seats in Nakuru. Raila unveiled the NASA line-up for various elective seats in Nakuru County. He unveiled Peter Koros for the governorship, Omondi Ogada for senator and Asha Rashid for the woman representative seat. Kalonzo declared NASA would lead a unga revolution because of the rising cost of living that has led to skyrocketing of prices of maize flour and sugar. &ldquo;The French Revolution was started due to the high cost of bread and we in Kenya today we will begin a unga revolution so that Jubilee can understand Kenyans are informed,&rdquo; said Kalonzo. ALSO READ: MPs told to give Sh290 million for innovation hubs He claimed importation of maize would hurt farmers, who were struggling to make a living. Kalonzo warned IEBC against pursuing the appeal on the announcement of presidential results at the constituency level, saying they should understand why the former commission was hounded out of office. &ldquo;The IEBC chairman has returning officers at every constituency and he should allow them to announce the presidential results,&rdquo; he said. Mr Mudavadi joined calls for an election boycott over announcement of presidential results saying the High Court decision must be respected. &ldquo;IEBC should be careful about the appeal in court over the announcement of the presidential results. They should read the mood of Kenyans at the moment,&rdquo; said the Amani National Congress (ANC) party leader. Mr Wetang&rsquo;ula said the courts had spoken on the announcement of presidential results at the constituency level as final. &ldquo;We as NASA will not go to Bomas of Kenya to wait for the announcement of presidential results after the August 8 polls, we will go by what will be announced by returning officers,&rdquo; he said. The Bungoma senator said NASA had no faith in the Judiciary after President Kenyatta claimed he had appointed the current Chief Justice David Maraga. &ldquo;The decision that will be taken by the Court of Appeal will not be accepted because we know the courts have been compromised,&rdquo; Wetangula said. ALSO READ: ANC and Ford Kenya vow to lock ODM out of western