Senator Johnstone Muthama has denied marital ties with Jubilee Party&rsquo;s nominee for the Machakos County Woman Representative position Ms Agnes Kavindu. Addressing journalists at his Tala home Thursday evening, the outspoken senator said he parted ways with Ms Kavindu way back in 1983 through a successful divorce suit. &ldquo;I very much want to talk about that woman. She is not my wife. We parted ways in 1983 in court but since I am a true African man who cares about the welfare of his children, I decided to get her some place to live because she was struggling with life in Nairobi,&rdquo; said Muthama. He continued, &ldquo;Whatever she is engaged in now is her own private business because we are not together and I have legal documents to that effect. If she dies today, she cannot be buried in my home because even the dowry my father (late) paid to her parents was refunded.&rdquo; Muthama said it was strange that Kavindu had moved back to court to claim he had remarried her. &ldquo;Huyu ni mwanamke mkora (this is a criminal woman). To me she is just another woman, only that she had been clinging on my name,&rdquo; he said, adding that he was unaware of whether she was being used by the Jubilee administration to embarrass him politically. On Monday, Ms Kavindu was among several aspirants of various political positions in Machakos who received Jubilee Party nomination certificates to contest in the forthcoming general election, where she was issued with a nomination certificate to vie for the woman representative seat. ALSO READ: Senator Muthama&rsquo;s wife to vie for Machakos Woman Rep on Jubilee ticket Muthama also appeared to soften his hard-line position against Wiper party and its leader, Kalonzo Musyoka saying he was still firmly in the party. &ldquo;I want Kenyans to understand that I am not a small fish in national politics. I am a life member of several parties including KANU, SDP, LDP, and Wiper. And when the time comes for me to quit the party, I will pull out with all my investment in the party,&rdquo; he said. Muthama insisted he was not ready to defend his senatorial seat if Alfred Mutua and former Kathiani MP Wavinya Ndeti were the only persons contesting for the Governor seat.