&nbsp; Francis Thoya, who is said to have been picked by Governor Hassan Joho as his running mate. [Photo:Maarufu Mohamed, Standard] Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has finally picked his county secretary to be his running mate in the August elections. Sources indicated Mr Joho, who is also the Orange Democratic Movement deputy party leader, had chosen Francis Thoya after a long search following the defection of deputy governor Hazel Katana to Jubilee Party. Multiple sources at the governor&rsquo;s office confirmed Mr Thoya, who at one time served as county executive member for Lands, was picked out of three possible candidates. The other two were head of Jumuiya ya Kaunti ya Pwani (JKP) secretary and dean at Technical University of Mombasa&rsquo;s School of Business William Kingi, and county Education and Children executive Tendai Lewa Mtana. However, the county director of communications Richard Chacha could not confirm or deny reports that Thoya would be the governor&rsquo;s running mate. ALSO READ: Mombasa needs Sh5 billion to mitigate effects of flooding toll Mr Chacha insisted Joho would announce his running mate in the course of the week. &ldquo;The governor is set to make an announcement on who will be his running mate in the course of the week. The process of settling on the running mate is being finalised,&rdquo; Chacha said. But sources said the paperwork was complete by Monday this week and Joho could make the announcement any time. &ldquo;The governor has settled on Mr Thoya and everything is complete, pending public announcement, certainly, at a ceremony,&rdquo; said a source yesterday. Thoya is a seasoned journalist who worked at The Standard and Nation newspapers. Mombasa will witness a heated race for governorship with Joho defending his seat against senator Hassan Omar of Wiper Democratic Movement, Suleiman Shahbal (Jubilee Party) and Nyali MP Hezron Awiti of Vibrant Democratic Party (VDP). Shahbal has chosen former Kisauni MP Ananiah Mwaboza as his running mate while Awiti has gone for Hassan Bakari Mwamtoa, a banker. Thoya, Mr Mwaboza and Mr Mwamtoa come from the Mijikenda community. ALSO READ: NIC Bank T20 champs named Governorship candidates have picked their running mates from the Mijikenda community, which accounts for a huge percentage of voters.&nbsp;