After bruising party primaries, the battle is not yet over for six governors at the Coast. The county bosses are in a long list of elected leaders in the region fighting for survival in the August 8 General Election as they face worthy opponents from rival parties and independent candidates. Hassan Joho of Mombasa, John Mruttu, (Taita Taveta), Salim Mvurya (Kwale), Amason Kingi (Kilifi), Hussein Dado (Tana River) and Issa Timamy of Lamu have tough battles on their hands. They are among candidates already listed by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) ready for the battle ahead. Independent candidate Mr Mruttu who recently lost in the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) primaries to Wundanyi MP Thomas Mwadeghu, has been listed as an independent candidate in a crowded gubernatorial race. ALSO READ: Vetting should ensure that those who want to lead are fit for office Apart from Mr Mwadeghu, Mr Mruttu will face senator Danson Mwazo who has ditched ODM for Jubilee Party, former deputy governor of Central Bank of Kenya Ms Jacinta Mwatela (Amani National Congress), Granton Samboja (Wiper party) and Constantine Maghanga (Maendeleo Chap Chap). Others who will run as independents in Taita Taveta are former Permanent Secretary Emmanuel Kisombe, Erastus Katani and Jared Nzano. In Mombasa, Joho faces senator Hassan Omar of Wiper, businessman Suleiman Shahbal (Jubilee), Nyali MP Hezron Awiti (Vibrant Democratic Party). The electoral body has also listed Anthony Chitavi of United Democratic Party (UDP), Silas Otuke (Maendeleo Chap Chap), Daniel Kitsao of Kadu Asili and Dr Chibule wa Tsuma as an independent candidate for the Mombasa gubernatorial seat. Mr Joho has said he is currently unifying his team in readiness for the political duel after the party primaries. &ldquo;We are currently facing the challenge of managing a post-primaries crisis after a large field of aspirants including allies lost,&rdquo; Joho said in a recently meeting. Governor Kingi on the other hand is defending his seat against Kilifi North MP Gideon Mung&rsquo;aro of Jubilee who has picked Kingi&rsquo;s deputy Kenneth Kamto as his running mate in the unfolding onslaught. Mr Mung&rsquo;aro shifted from ODM more than a year ago and vowed to oust governor Kingi. ALSO READ: Court allows IEBC to give tender for ballot papers He is also wrestling with former Cabinet Secretary Kazungu Kambi of Kadu Asili, Prof Gabriel Katana (Wiper) and Michael Tinga of the Devolution Party of Kenya. In Kwale, governor Mvurya has rolled his sleeves against Dr Issa Chipera of ODM who has picked former Kinango Simeon Mkalla as running mate. He also faces an uphill task against former High Commissioner to Tanzania, Chirau Mwakwere, who has just picked high school teacher Omar Mwandogo Chigodi to replace Mr Mkalla as running mate. According to IEBC, Kwale county Speaker Sammy Ruwa and Mr Gereza Dena are running as independents. Governor Mvurya has declared he will trounce his rivals in August 8 polls, saying his development records speaks for itself. Mvurya said the county government currently fully pays fees for 2,881 students in national schools and more than 700 in universities. Mvurya has a mathematical chance of winning reelection if Mwakwere, Chipera and Ruwa split the National Super Alliance (NASA) vote and his remains intact but he has an immense task rallying residents to support Jubilee where most of them support the opposition due to perceptions about land injustices. Governor Dado who recently defected from Wiper to Jubilee faces a major political test from former Galole MP Major (rtd) Dhadho Godana (ODM), county Speaker Dr Nuh Nassir (Wiper) and former Garsen MP Danson Mungatana of Kenya Patriots Party. ALSO READ: President Uhuru&rsquo;s campaign machine revealed Mr Timamy of ANC faces his political nemesis Fahim Twaha (Jubilee), Swaleh Imu (Wiper), newcomers Abdalla Fadhil (ODM) and Kinuthia Ndung&rsquo;u of Party of National Unity (PNU). The senatorial race in Lamu has attracted Hassan Albeity (Wiper), Speaker Salim Mohamed Hashim (ANC), Athman Sheelali (ODM), Monica Kirunya (Maendeleo Chap Chap) and Anuar Loitipitip.