It is a chilly morning in Nakuru town, Nakuru County, and people are hurrying to work as others head to the market for fresh produce. Lorries, wheelbarrows, motorcycles and bicycles can be seen ferrying produce to Wakulima Market, ready for business in the fast-growing town. However, the sanitation at the market is deplorable, particularly because this is a fresh produce market that many residents frequent to get their vegetables and fruits. Traders claim the garbage has not been collected since the end of the political party nominations, yet they pay Sh360 every month for waste disposal services. During the Jubilee Party nominations last month, Governor Kinuthia Mbugua lost his bid for the party ticket to Lee Kinyanjui. At the main entrance to the market, sellers and buyers are welcomed by the buzzing sound of flies that thrive on the foul-smelling heaps of garbage scattered all over the place. ALSO READ: Save Lake Nakuru from choking on plastic waste &quot;We are surprised that the nominations have deprived us of a clean working environment. Since the governor lost, the waste has not been collected,&quot; said Beatrice Muthoni, an avocado trader. The garbage heaps also make it difficult for traders and customers to move quickly around the market that serves more than 5,000 people daily. Disease outbreak Ms Muthoni said traders had raised the issue with the county government more than once but nothing had been done. She expressed fears that there could be a disease outbreak. &quot;Look, flies are all over my produce. This could cause disease to myself and my consumers,&quot; said Muthoni, who is seated next to a heap of uncollected waste. In May 2015, there was an outbreak of cholera that killed at least 20 people and affected 280 others. Another trader, Mary Njeri, sells oranges a metre away from an open sewer. Her umbrella borders a dumpsite. ALSO READ: Snooker: Nakuru, Mbaraki in championship County Chief Officer for Trade Edith Kimani dismissed allegations that garbage had not been collected in the market for a month. Ms Kimani however admitted that waste had not been collected on weekends because the tractor assigned to the central business district was grounded for two days. The traders claimed that the county government cleaned the market only when they complained.