One of the most celebrated aspects of the Constitution of Kenya is the deepening of the democratic process and the Bill of Rights. This provides for the eligibility to vie as an independent candidate. Today, every Tom, Dick and window-licking Harry knows that shambolic party elections largely contributed to the explosion of Independent candidates. Party primaries as recently demonstrated, are a critical ingredient in democratic consolidation and as such should not only be free and fair, but must be seen to be so. And whereas I agree with the over 3,800 Independent candidates that they have a right to contest and have the people determine their fate come August 8, 2017, I refuse to believe that all of them were rigged out &mdash; but that is a story for another day. The big questionis whether these &ldquo;Independents&rdquo; &mdash; who some consider political miscreants &mdash; are rich in political capital. Opinion is divided among the political coalitions on whether the leading flag bearers should embrace the support of the Independent candidates. Whereas the Deputy President openly acknowledged and accepted the support of this group, the NASA principals, while appearing on different platforms, have categorically asked their supporters to shun them. In fact, ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi asked the Independent candidates to quit the race in favour of those who have party tickets. Those denouncing the independent candidates need to be reminded that in politics, every vote counts. In a democracy like ours &mdash; which puts the presidential threshold very high (50% + 1) there is need for anyone who aspires to be president to harvest all the possible support that can come his/her way. So to openly denounce a huge constituency on grounds that you want to be seen to be supporting the very same people who benefited from the unfair party primaries is not only unacceptable but immoral. In asking their supporters to vote for party candidates only, Raila Odinga seems to imply that he does the votes of the independent candidates who are also voters, besides controlling some constituency even if it is at household level). Why would, for instance, an independent candidate cast his/her vote for a presidential candidate who is busy decampaigning him/ her? On this one, the enigma is wrong and should be asked to reconsider his stand. NASA should borrow a leaf from their chief competitor, President Kenyatta who has been on a Gather All Scatter None mission, whereby he has been embracing support from any fringe party that has shown interest in adopting him as their presidential candidate. I humbly submit that it is indeed in the interest of Raila Odinga and Uhuru Kenyatta to have these independent candidates compete fairly with their rivals. They should instead openly say that they are ready to work with whoever the people will elect as long as the presidential votes are put in one basket. ALSO READ: Ipsos: Kenyans would vote Uhuru if elections were held today This will not only energise their base but also provide all the supporters with an incentive to go to the polling stations and vote and, in voting candidates of their choice, they would be casting their ballot for the president too. Am not a prophet of doom nor a son of one, but I dare say that without doing so, voter apathy will be a reality and with that, #10MillionStrong will remain a mirage. Finally, the country needs to demystify the notion of 6-piece voting. It has be argued that in Kenya, people vote for parties rather than individuals. The risk of doing so is stifling democracy. People should be elected on the basis of how best they are suited to tackle the socio-economic challenges affecting their constituents but not on the basis of possessing a party ticket which could have been fraudulently obtained. Duncan Otieno is a Public Policy Commentator Twitter: @DuncanOtieno