Living in a gated community is the dream of many in the city. But for Eva Nyawira, a resident of Membley Park Estate in Ruiru, things have not been rosy for the ten years she has lived there. Ms Nyawira suffered a broken leg due to alleged harassment by some of her neighbours, who she claims have been harassing her after she refused to part with Sh2,500 every month for security. Daughter&rsquo;s phone &ldquo;I was recently attacked by some of my neighbours just because I told them that I could not contribute Sh2,500 every month for security. The neighbourhood management has now instructed the watchmen not to open the main gate for me,&rdquo; said Nyawira. The mother of three said she was attacked by six men and women from her neighbourhood late last year after she refused to pay. ALSO READ: Why tenants are abandoning Rongai &ldquo;I later tried to leave so that I could go to the police and report, but the watchman had been instructed not to let me leave. I, however, used my daughter&rsquo;s phone to call my father who alerted one of his friends in the neighbourhood and he helped me get out of the compound and took me to the police station,&rdquo; she added. She was issued with a P3 form and then treated at Avenue hospital. Chairman of the Forest court neighbourhood association, Peter Muriuki, however tells of a different story. He said Nyawira was uncooperative and disrespected her neighbours and had even at one point almost run a watchman. Broken leg &ldquo;She has in the past tried injuring a resident. There are other two or three residents that open the gate for themselves and they do not complain,&rdquo; said Muriuki. Nyawira is now forced to open the gate for herself with her broken leg, regardless of whether it is raining or not since the guards have been instructed not to open the gate for her or her family. ALSO READ: Nkaissery tours July games venue Another resident who sought anonymity said he did not have faith in the association, claiming they were more concerned with extorting money than members&rsquo; welfare. Police at the Ruiru police station where the case had been transferred declined to comment on the issue. [email&#160;protected]