Missing Churo Amaya ward MCA Thomas Minito from Baringo county who has been missing for the last five days found dead at Ol Donyo Sabuk bridge, Athi River. The body of the slain MCA was found under the bridge by a boda boda operator who alerted the police. It is suspected that he was killed elsewhere and the dumped at the scene, police said. His body had a head injury suspected to be caused by a blunt object. The MCA went missing from his home since Monday this week, according to family members. His brother Johnstone Minito said that they had been searching for him since then all in vain. According to him, the MCA was last seen at Kabarnet town on Sunday and has since not been spotted. His phone was off. However, by the time of going to press, neither him nor any other family member had been informed of the latest incident concerning his murder. A senior police officer from Kabarnet police station who requested not to be quoted confirmed to The Standard that it was true that his body had been found. &quot;We liaised with our Kangundo team who confirmed that the body was his after searching for his documents. He had URP cards in his pocket that helped the police identify his body,&quot; he said. The body was moved to Kangundo Nursing Home mortuary awaiting postmortem. Minito was out on a Sh2 million bond after he was charged in a Nyahururu court with charges of assault. He is also alleged to have been involved in the burning of a lodge belonging to Laikipia Nature and Conservancy ranch owned by rancher Kukki Galmann. ALSO READ: Slain pastor's body parts discovered Ms Gallman was after the incident shot and injured by bandits as she patrolled the ranch after illegal herders invaded it. &quot;We believe the Government has a hand in this and we demand to know the whereabouts of our two brothers. This is not normal for them not to appear in public or have their phones switched off,&quot; said the elder Minito. &quot;We have sought questions from the police all in vain. We are very traumatized right now,&quot; he said.