The National Super Alliance (NASA) will storm Rift Valley today for its first rally since the Opposition coalition unveiled Raila Odinga as its flag-bearer. The NASA team, comprising of Pentagon members Raila, Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi, Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula, and Isaac Ruto, will be at the rally which is scheduled to kick off at midday at the Afraha Grounds in Nakuru Town. New direction Raila arrived in the country yesterday after a week in Israel, where he attended and addressed an international conference. The choice of Nakuru as its first port of call in their campaign strategy appears to have been informed by the thinking that it is an an area where both sides of the political divide will scramble for votes. &ldquo;It is a major event and a game changer in the elections scheduled for August. The Afraha rally will herald a wind of change that will shape the race all the way to August,&rdquo; said a statement from NASA. NASA further claimed that the rally will herald a loss of grip on the populous Rift Valley by Jubilee and dispel the illusion and notion created so far that region is impenetrably the ruling coalition&rsquo;s. ALSO READ: Joho&rsquo;s stern test to unify his party The alliance leaders invited residents of all political persuasions to attend the meeting that &ldquo;will give a new direction for the country&rdquo;. &ldquo;The notion that Rift Valley voters are in the pockets of Jubilee leaders and that everyone else is an outsider and intruder ends on Sunday,&rdquo; Raila declared on Friday. The rally will also be the first to be held since Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto joined NASA, bringing to five the number of principals in the Pentagon - the alliance&rsquo;s highest organ. Addressing journalists at the stadium yesterday during the preparations of the meeting, NASA&rsquo;s Interim Chair for Nakuru County Stephen Muli said all is set and the party is looking forward to a successful launch of the coalition&rsquo;s presidential campaigns. &ldquo;We have been granted sufficient security officers by the county commandant to avoid unnecessary disruption,&rdquo; said Muli. Nakuru ODM chairman Peter Ndungunya Ole Osono assured supporters that the rally will be peaceful and open for all. Elsewhere, Deputy President William Ruto has dismissed the opposition arguing that the soaring prices of basic commodities including unga was caused by the prolonged drought that hit the country recently. Soaring prices ALSO READ: Running mates next big battle for Kisumu aspirants Speaking in Kakamega yesterday, Ruto questioned the politicising of the issue, saying the Opposition was using the plight for their selfish gains ahead of the August elections. &ldquo;Our colleagues in the Opposition are opportunists who take advantage of such situations to mislead Kenyans that they have solutions to such problems,&rdquo; said the DP.