The National Disaster Management Unit (NDMU) has urged all stakeholders to team up and push for implementation of disaster management laws that have been in draft form for long. NDMU Deputy Director Pius Masai said the National Disaster Management Policy (NDMP) draft as well as Disaster Risk Management (DRM) Bill are crucial documents in saving the country from man-made and natural disasters, yet passing them into law has delayed. &ldquo;We are appealing for a national forum to push for the procedure to ensure implementation. Many bodies have been pushing independently with limited voice,&rdquo; he said. While NDMP has been in draft form for about 17 years, the DRM Bill has been hanging in Parliament for close to five years. The two documents contain crucial information such as the potential disasters in Kenya, how and who to respond to them and the nature of resources to be used. Speaking during a stakeholders forum at NDMU headquarters, Mr Masai said it is only through implementing the two documents that Kenya will be proactive to disasters rather than reactive. Fire protection Many businesses have suffered massive losses due to disasters such as fire. During the same forum, one of the participating firms, Fedan Fire Solutions, launched manual and automatic fire protection systems that are set to beef up efforts of arresting indoor fire incidences. According to the company&rsquo;s managing director Fednah Muthoni, the device dubbed Dry Sprinkler Powder Aerosol (DSPA) can detect fire at a very early stage and extinguish it within seconds. While DSPA-5 is a hand-held device operated manually, DSPA-automatic does not require human intervention to put out fire. &ldquo;When fire happens, smoke detectors will tell the control panel that there is fire. The DSPA will swing into action then notify you via message that there was fire but it has been arrested,&rdquo; said Ms Muthoni. Unlike the ordinary extinguishers, DSPA can stay active for up to 15 years and extinguish fire by lowering temperatures as opposed to relying on carbon dioxide, said the company.