Each of the presidential aspirants will have their security boosted once the polls agency clears them to run. The Independent&nbsp;Electoral&nbsp;and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) receives papers from the aspirants on Sunday and Monday at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC), Nairobi. The law demands that all candidates for the presidency be provided with adequate security. Those who will present their papers for the seat include Ekuru Aukot, Raila Odinga, Joseph Nyagah, Uhuru Kenyatta, Abduba Dida, Justus Juma, Michael Wainaina and Cyrus Jirongo. Apart from Uhuru and Raila who enjoy state security, the other aspirants will get a police escort and at least six officers to take care of their Nairobi and rural homes. Uhuru, by virtue of being the President, has a full presidential escort unit while Raila has between eight and 12 officers because of his past positions. ALSO READ: Raila&rsquo;s last stab must renew hope among a frustrated electorate Deputy President William Ruto too has a full security team. Raila&rsquo;s running mate Kalonzo Musyoka too maintains a security team with him because of his past position as Vice President. The aspirants have now been assigned a liaison officer based at police headquarters to coordinate their operations once they are cleared. Their running mates too will get security. This will depend on various factors, an official aware of the plans said yesterday. Police headquarters said the security for the aspirants is their right and a legal requirement and they will get what they &ldquo;deserve&rdquo;. &ldquo;Already we have liaison officers who will coordinate their movements and other activities. Their secretariats know what to do,&rdquo; said an officer privy to the plans. In 2013, each of the candidates had between two and 14 bodyguards. It depended on their movements and plans for the day. Yesterday, Nairobi police boss Japheth Koome said they had made arrangements to ensure the exercise goes on smoothly at the KICC. Police are working with IEBC to know the schedule and make arrangements for the movements for the candidates. ALSO READ: Opposition leaders&rsquo; 10 million votes mantra is definitely far-fetched