A pedestrian in the city is more likely to die from a boda boda accident than any other category of road users. This is according to statistics from the National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA). In 2016, out of 2,965 road deaths, 1,097 were pedestrians, translating to 37 per cent of the total number. As of March 6, 2017, pedestrian deaths were at 41 per cent of the total 546. Most pedestrians say boda boda riders are a law unto themselves. They never obey traffic rules, including traffic lights and zebra crossings; they ride on pavements and footpaths designated for pedestrians and in most cases, they are never arrested. North Airport Road is one of the roads most abused by boda boda riders, who force themselves onto pedestrian walkways. &ldquo;We are forced to share the narrow pedestrian walks with boda boda riders and they are very rude when you tell them that they are in the wrong place,&rdquo; says Juliana Munuve, a casual labourer in a factory along Mombasa Road. &ldquo;Some even threaten to run you over if you refuse to give way.&rdquo; Be careful ALSO READ: When State officials turn into kings of impunity on the road Ms Munuve adds: &ldquo;The police mostly ignore them as they harass pedestrians at will. A solution should be found to stop this menace by boda boda riders.&rdquo; Sometimes, they ride on the wrong side of the road. &ldquo;Today, pedestrians have to be very careful about boda boda riders approaching from the front or behind,&rdquo; says Munuve. Julius Otieno, another pedestrian, blames pedestrians for not exercising their right on the walkways. &ldquo;We should gang up and refuse to give them space to pass. We are the ones encouraging them to behave with impunity,&rdquo; suggests Mr Otieno. He says complaints to traffic police officers manning the roads have been futile and the only way is for pedestrians to gang up and chase the riders off the pavements. On some roads and pavements, waist-height metal barriers have been erected to stop the riders, but these have not helped much. ALSO READ: Enforce traffic laws to curb road accidents Not spared Fly-overs or bypasses have not been spared either - in an effort to avoid using the main road, some crazy riders use them to make U-turns or cross to the other side of the road. The most abused flyovers are near Imara Diama on Mombasa Road, near the Kobil Petrol Station on North Airport Road and the one near General Motors. &ldquo;We use it to avoid going all the way to Lab area. If you want, for instance, to go to GM, Enterprise Road or Mombasa Road and you are on the other side, you just dash across,&rdquo; says one rider. &ldquo;Should you get arrested by traffic police, it will be unfortunate. You will just negotiate, pay some money and you are let free,&rdquo; he adds.