KILIFI, KENYA: Kilifi County Government loses about Sh30 million of revenue through illegal water connections each month, according to the Managing Director Kilifi, Mariakani Water and Sewerage Company Limited (KIMAWASCO) Hezekiel Mwarua. This means that 46 per cent percent of water in the County is not bringing revenue according to the officials estimate. This was revealed after officers from KIMAWASCO acting on a tip off ambushed an American&nbsp;and&nbsp; two Kenyans and established that they were using an illegal water connection for more than seven years. Mwarua said some of the illegal connections are carried out by the staffs who know where to set a by &ndash;pass at a cheaper fee. He warned his workers that whoever will be caught in the criminal act will face legal action. At the same time, he called up the community to give out information on whoever they suspect to be stealing water. &quot;We are always not aware of the culprits but the community is in a better position to spot them and inform us for action,&quot; said Mwarua. Speaking at Mr Donald Mcewan&#39;s homestead at Seahorse in Kilifi&#39;s old ferry area, KIMAWASCO area manager Virginia Nyambura said they got a tip off from members of the public. Nyambura said three cases one within the Kilifi town ship area ,Mr Mcewan of account number 8800402500,Santa Jacob Mwaro(8900352360)in Mtondia and Jacinta Mwenda Fondo (890031070) in Tezo have been reported to her in a period of one week. &quot;The meter on the main line at the Whiteman homestead is intact however there is another line which is now flowing water to the swimming pool. The two from Tezo and Mtondia had put a connection which was using a lot of water but again created a by-pass going to irrigate their farms. People around them were not getting any water due to this connections,&quot; said Nyambura. KIMAWASCO Commercial Officer Joel Kupalia, said Mr Mcewan bills have been very suspicious since he has been paying shs350 which is the minimum bill for all that time. She said the problem has been a challenge to the company in its effort to ensure that everyone has access to piped water.