The National Super Alliance (NASA) leaders have promised to reduce the cost of living within 90 days if they win the August 8 elections. The five NASA principals said their campaign to dislodge Jubilee from power was motivated by the high cost of living that the President Uhuru Kenyatta-led administration has failed to address. The Opposition leaders urged Kenyans to elect them to power, saying they will fight corruption, ensure equal treatment of all Kenyans, create jobs and an enabling environment for business and also provide free secondary education and health services. &ldquo;Jubilee lied that the unga price has reduced to Sh90. Where is that unga? The so-called cheap unga is only in Ruto&rsquo;s home and State House. Within 90 days of taking over power, NASA shall reduce the cost of living by addressing the cost of unga, milk, sugar and rent,&rdquo; presidential candidate Raila Odinga said. Speaking after the electoral agency cleared him, Raila said the journey to the Biblical Canaan had commenced and his regime will deliver fruits that will include reduction of rent, gender main streaming, free education and health services and eradicate corruption. On rent Raila added: &ldquo;We will not allow a small clique of individuals who behave like ticks to suck blood from our people. Rent rates will be reviewed according to the law to ensure Kenyans are not exploited.&rdquo; ALSO READ: Major 'one million strong' rally lined up after Raila cleared by IEBC The ODM leader was addressing thousands of supporters Sunday at the Jacaranda grounds, in Embakasi East, who had braved rains pounding parts of the city after he had returned his nomination papers to the IEBC. He said investors will no longer be asked to give bribes to get licences and permits to establish businesses and that police officers will treat Kenyans with dignity and not harass them. His running mate, Kalonzo Musyoka, hit out at Deputy President William Ruto whom he described as major reason why Jubilee and President Uhuru Kenyatta will be sent home. &ldquo;Sunday (Saturday) Ruto was in Makueni and said that I know Jubilee will be re-elected. That is a lie. He is a liar. In fact Ruto is the reason Uhuru Kenyatta will be sent home,&rdquo; Kalonzo said. He added; &ldquo;This is the start of Unga revolution since unga is a basic food and Kenyans are hungry. A hungry person is an angry person. Even the people of central are hungry and I call upon them to join us to sent Jubilee home on August 8.&rdquo; Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto said Jubilee had presided over economic mismanagement with its leaders becoming arrogant as Kenyans continue to suffer from hunger and unemployment. &ldquo;They mopped our maize and took it to the high seas and lied that they have imported from Mexico. That maize was somewhere between Mauritius and Mombasa, actually it was 30kms off Mombasa. Then when we ask, they tell us wanakula nyama sisi tumeze mate (we watch as they eat meat),&rdquo; said the Chama Cha Mashinani leader. ALSO READ: Raila&rsquo;s last stab must renew hope among a frustrated electorate Advance warning Governor Ruto warned Jubilee not to dare rig the August polls, saying they will not accept anything short of a free and fair elections. He added; &ldquo;People can&rsquo;t even afford porridge and they keep telling us they have tyranny of numbers. That tyranny is the Eurobond, NYS, Afya House, maize etc.&rdquo; Mudavadi said those supporting Jubilee should rethink twice as he accused Uhuru and Ruto of presiding an economic meltdown. &ldquo;This time, we shall all wake up early to cast our votes and thereafter, protect it. The journey to free the country from Uhuru and Ruto has begun. As NASA, we shall visit every corner of the country to sell our manifesto as we seek to dislodge Jubilee from power,&rdquo; Mudavadi said. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula described Sunday an epic moment for the Opposition and asked the country to unite behind them so as to send home the &lsquo;dubious&rsquo; duo. &ldquo;We have more than enough support to deliver victory. When we talk of 10 million strong, that&rsquo;s what we mean. A NASA government will treat all Kenyans equally regardless of where they come from,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: Opposition leaders&rsquo; 10 million votes mantra is definitely far-fetched Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and his Nairobi counterpart Evans Kidero called on NASA supporters to be vigilant warning that &ldquo;this time they should not try to rig the election&rdquo;.