Fresh signs that President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto are warming up to small parties emerged Wednesday when they met leaders of a little-known outfit from Northern Kenya. The meeting at State House, Nairobi, with leaders of the Economic Freedom Party (EFP), signalled Jubilee Party was willing to embrace the small parties backing its campaign. Willingness to work President Kenyatta said their willingness to work with Jubilee &quot;demonstrated true friendship&quot;. &quot;As far as I am concerned, your party is Jubilee. We will not in any way be biased, all of you are our people. It is wananchi who will decide their leaders,&quot; President Kenyatta told EFP leaders led by aspiring Mandera Governor Hassan Noor Hassan. Hassan, a former senior Devolution ministry administrator, assured the President of the party&#39;s support in his re-election bid, according to the State House statement. ALSO READ: Munya accuses Jubilee of neglecting Meru residents &quot;We support you as our President and we are mobilising voters to ensure your get 98 per cent of the votes in Mandera County and in other places,&quot; said Mr Hassan. The President, accompanied by Deputy President William Ruto, bent over backwards to accommodate the political outfit, which now joins the league of Party of National unity (PNU) and Narc Kenya in supporting the President&#39;s re-election bid in the August 8 polls. The two parties are led by Meru Governor Peter Munya and former Gichugu MP and Kirinyaga gubernatorial candidate, Martha Karua respectively. The President and his deputy agreed to meet leaders of the new party, a departure from their non-committal stance towards small parties that had said they were supporting Jubilee, but which refused to fold up and become part of the ruling coalition. Early this year, 11 small parties folded to form Jubilee Party, whose supporters at the time insisted politicians outside the Jubilee formation should not pretend to support the President&#39; re-election bid. President Kenyatta and his deputy then said only an umbrella party could promote national unity. But Wednesday, a statement from State House said: &quot;President Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto expressed their gratitude to the Economic Freedom Party leaders.&quot; ALSO READ: State appeals against court order suspending Joho's prosecution [email&#160;protected]