Businesses in informal settlements in Nairobi face closure over low returns caused by water scarcity and the high cost of living. The small-scale entrepreneurs who heavily rely on water claimed they were incurring huge losses due to water rationing. In Eastlands area, car wash operators said they had resorted to digging water pans close to residential houses built on swampy areas. They then fetch the underground water, wait for it to settle before using it. They now charge Sh150 for their services up from Sh100. &quot;We agree with the tenants to fetch some water for them once we dig the pans. And since they are also in need of water, they rarely decline,&quot; said Samuel Kinyanjui, a car wash attendant in Maringo estate. ALSO READ: Three electrocuted in Nairobi after heavy downpour He told Metropolitan they had to do this to survive after long periods of dry taps almost pushed them out of business. Two of his colleagues have already been dismissed. A salon owner in Mwiki is also suffering as customers stay away. &quot;We are losing our customers since our taps ran dry. We have increased the prices of any service that requires water,&quot; said Hellen Nafula, a hairdresser. Ms Nafula said the most common services sought with most returns included washing, blow-dry and hair texturising; all of which require a lot of water. &quot;Initially, we would charge between Sh80 and Sh100, but now it has risen to between Sh150 and Sh200,&quot; she said. And food kiosk owners along Jogoo Road have not been spared. They complained of poor sanitation. &quot;This is a big threat to not only our businesses but also to our lives due to the high risk of water-borne diseases staring into our faces. If this situation continues for more than two months, then it will be useless being here,&quot; said Mercy Wambui, who runs a hotel. ALSO READ: Drought Agency distributes animal feeds to save 15,000 livestock Ms Wambui added most customers were buying processed foods and sodas for fear the water used to cook could be unclean. &quot;There have been instances where tap water mixes up with water from the sewage. I don&#39;t understand how, but that has been a real scare to most customers. Before they can order, they find out who supplies our water,&quot; she added. Margaret Kanini, a resident of Maringo estate, said she no longer sought the services of people who wash clothes at a fee. &quot;They use too much water that I cannot comfortably afford now. I can save water if I wash my clothes in bits after taking a bath,&quot; she said. She added that it was unfortunate the people who wash clothes, mostly women, would not be able fend for their families because many had lost their jobs. &quot;Times are tough, but they are tougher for us, the low-income earners in Eastlands,&quot; she said. Kanini said most of the residents in the area fetched water from the neighbouring Bahati estate, which she said had continued to receive a an uninterrupted supply of water from the Kenya Airforce line. ALSO READ: UN issues ultimatum as millions face starvation &nbsp;