After years of false starts, the multi-billion shilling oil and gas project in Faza will kick off after Governor Issa Timamy and local residents gave it the green light. Zarara Oil and Gas Company now plans to begin drilling the first well at a cost of Sh3 billion to test the oil or gas deposits at Siyu. The company was given approval to begin the exploration works during a stakeholders&#39; meeting at the Faza Social Hall that was attended by Governor Timamy, County Commissioner Joseph Kanyiri, civil rights activist, and area residents. The top directors of the company were also present and explained to the residents how they intended to implement the project. Those who spoke said the company had followed all the rules to ensure that its activities did not harm the people and the environment. However, some residents expressed concern about compensation for those who would be displaced from the land earmarked for the drilling. According to the company, it requires 20 acres to implement the project but has identified 50 acres at the Siyu site. Others sought to know the share of the proceeds that would go to the community once the project begins as well as employment opportunities and corporate social responsibility programmes. The governor said his government supported the project because of the way the company had involved the community. &nbsp;Job opportunities He said residents should be given priority in the job opportunities that would arise from the project. &quot;I request Zarara to identify deserving students and offer them scholarships,&#39;&#39; said Timamy. On revenue sharing, the governor said once the law was passed in Parliament, the county government would sign a memorandum of understanding with the company to ensure that the local community gets its stake. The governor also asked the company to consider tarmacking the road from Mtangawanda to Kizingitini. The company plans to begin drilling the first well before the end of the year and has started ferrying equipment to the site.