Before we were given hustling, there was suffering, which is less well-known, but just as important to the economy. The sufferer tries everything anywhere, and makes losses or just breaks even. He or she gets no help from parents, relatives or friends. Sufferers start from nothing. They have no inheritance and no savings. They often borrow from sympathetic friends, but with tough conditions like using their only jacket as collateral. Sufferers live one day at a time. Their greatest ambition is to see the sunset. Their sources of income are unpredictable. They hope for miracles every day. They will do anything to get money to survive for just one day - including lying to friends or relatives. They will carry your luggage at a fee, clean your clothes, trim your hedges or any other work that brings a daily wage. The sufferer, unlike the hustler, is a grand opportunist with no loyalty to any profession. He is a jack of all trades. He can be picked from the crowd by his attire and demeanour. Most sufferers lack the confidence of hustlers - they talk softly, take instructions easily and elicit sympathy from us, though we can&rsquo;t rule out a few pretenders. In the current political season, the sufferers sing praises to whomever can give them something for the day. They will tell Politician A, &ldquo;Ni wewe tu&rdquo;, but when Politician B passes by, the refrain will be repeated. The philosophy of the sufferer is to make hay while the sun shines. Sufferers are found in the cities and in the countryside. They long gave up on improving their lives and see life as a long list of troubles. Some attribute their suffering to bad luck, or dark forces like witchcraft and curses. Unlike hustlers who are likely to be well educated, sufferers are likely to be school dropouts or to come from unstable families. Others went through school, not to school. A few graduate into hustling and do extremely well; they know the realities of life. No loyalty Visitors to this country are often touched by the sufferers&rsquo; plight and do not believe a human being can live such a life. But our elite think it is the sufferers&rsquo; fault &ndash; they did not work hard enough, are lazy and don&rsquo;t recognise opportunities. The truth is that in an economy dominated by capitalism without a human face, sufferers are likely to be in plenty. In developed countries, sufferers get some welfare to ensure that they access the basics, like housing and food. What is the future of sufferers? Recently, the Government started giving some cash to the elderly, which is a great idea. Can the same be extended to sufferers? We can do background checks to confirm they are legitimate. Who knows, with time, some suffers could become hustlers and eventually sonkos. The sufferers will not prosper if the invisible hand of the market is not supplemented by the visible hand of the Government. Finally, and sadly, it is unlikely that a sufferer will read this story. He may prefer buying bread to a newspaper. Share this story with any sufferer you know and tell him or her &lsquo;tuko pamoja&rsquo;. By the way, there are more male sufferers because we are less sympathetic to men and their suffering