Are you sitting on thousands of loyalty points that are about to expire? There&#39;s one way to find out What&rsquo;s in your wallet? For many of us, along with coins and notes there will be a host of loyalty cards. Whether you&rsquo;re a big Nectar fan, a dedicated Clubcard collector, or dabble in a little bit of everything, loyalty points are big business. As a nation we earn around &pound;5.7billion a year from loyalty schemes, a staggering amount. But the truth is that we aren&rsquo;t quite as engaged with the value of those points as we should be, which could not only cost us cash, but also result in our families missing out on their value after we pass away. While most of us have a wallet or purse filled with loyalty cards, we don&rsquo;t tend to have a clue how many points we actually have no what they are worth. TopCashback&rsquo;s report found that three-quarters of us do not know what our points would convert into in pounds and so are liable to underestimate their value. Given that the vast majority of us (86 percent) save up our loyalty points, the chances are you are sitting on a significant amount of unclaimed cash from your loyalty schemes. The vouchers sent out by some loyalty schemes, like Clubcard, have expiry dates. If you aren&rsquo;t on top of exactly how many points you have, simply blindly collecting them as you go, then there&rsquo;s a good chance that you aren&rsquo;t on top of when they expire either. There&rsquo;s no point collecting these points if you don&rsquo;t ever get around to actually spending them! Besides, keeping on top of your points balance - and what those points are worth - is a good idea simply because it means you&rsquo;ll be able to make a more informed decision on exactly how to (eventually) spend them. Let&rsquo;s say that you are sitting on a significant number of Clubcard points. Sure, you can use them every now and again to save a few quid on your big shop. But thanks to its Clubcard Boost scheme, you can convert them for rewards worth up to four times more with certain partners. So for example you could slash the cost of entertaining the kids during the summer holidays with cut price trips to the cinema or the zoo, saving a lot more money than using them in Tesco. Some loyalty schemes now have apps - Clubcard and Nectar have standalone apps, while you can check your Boots Advantage balance via the Boots app for example - which should make it easier to keep track of your balance on the go. The study from TopCashback revealed that a massive 93 of us had no idea that we can pass on our loyalty points to a loved one after we die. However, it&rsquo;s worth bearing in mind that different loyalty schemes have different rules. For example, while you can transfer Nectar, Clubcard and Avios points over to another person if you die, some flight reward schemes do not allow this. With the Virgin Atlantic Flying Club, for example, points will only be transferred if a copy of the will is provided, which explicitly states that the proposed recipient is entitled to them. So the next time you need to amend your will, it is worth putting it in writing exactly where you want your points to go. Just 5 percent of people have left their digital passwords with a solicitor, while a paltry 2 percent have included a list of their loyalty programmes in their will. I know it seems a bit daft - &ldquo;To Dave, I leave my laptop, my signed England shirt and my Nectar card&rdquo; - but if you don&rsquo;t, those points that you&rsquo;ve painstakingly collected will simply go to waste. Your loved ones will also need to let the taxman know. Leigh Sagar, from inheritance experts STEP, explained: &ldquo;Although the terms and conditions usually state that the points have no cash value, they can be converted into goods and services that do have a value. &quot;Therefore, if the terms and conditions provide that the points can be claimed after death, unless they are of negligible value they should be declared as an asset in the tax forms that must be sent to HM Revenue and Customs before a grant of probate can be obtained. Legal advice should be sought in each case.&rdquo;