The family of a nine-year-old girl who allegedly committed suicide in Siger, Rarieda sub-county, is seeking justice. The body of Jacinta Amondi, a Standard One pupil at Wang&rsquo;arot Primary School, was found hanging from a rope in her uncle&rsquo;s kitchen on March 30. She is suspected to have been murdered before being hanged. There was no trace of a suicide note when her body was found in the morning.&nbsp; According to family sources, the girl showed no indication of frustration that could have pushed her to commit suicide.&nbsp; The family has now scheduled her burial for May 7 and a public demonstration on May 6. Maurice Bolo, a relative, told The Standard that postmortem results conducted on April 6 at the Bondo Sub-county Hospital mortuary showed the girl died from injuries inflicted on her head using a blunt object. ALSO READ: Man kills wife over love affair with boda boda rider The report also indicated that the body had bruises on the hands and legs. HARD COPIES &ldquo;Even though the family witnessed the postmortem, police have denied them hard copies of the report. From the results, it is clear someone murdered this child and is trying to make it look like suicide,&rdquo; he said. The family is disputing the suicide claims. They also feel the case has not been handled well and accuse the police of being reluctant to get to the bottom of the matter. Even though security officers were called and recorded statements, and crime scene officers dusted the place for fingerprints, the suspects were arrested, locked up and later released under unclear circumstances. &ldquo;So far, we are not getting requisite support from police and law enforcement agencies,&quot; said Mr Bolo. ALSO READ: Candidates warm up to Siaya Gubernatorial primaries &quot;That key suspects have been released in unclear circumstances, investigations seem to have either slowed down or stalled and police are failing to share postmotem reports are worrying indicators of a possible cover-up or meddling in the investigations.&quot; SIMILAR CASE He added that their concern also stemmed from the fact that less than two years ago, a similar case happened in the same home and the suspects have never been brought to book. In fact, he said, the case seems to have fallen off the radar. But Rarieda OCPD Johana Chebii said investigations were underway and promised to call the family soon to make an inquest. &ldquo;We are not reluctant as the family claims. We arrested the parents and uncle of the deceased because they were not willing to talk about her death,&rdquo; said Mr Chebii. He added that since the family was present during the postmortem, a hard copy of the report was not necessary. ALSO READ: Midiwo-Rasanga lock horns over State House visit on Dominion farm &lsquo;conflict&rsquo; The family has already sought assistance from human rights organisations such as Cradle in a bid to seek justice for Jacinta &nbsp;