National Super Alliance (NASA) presidential candidate Raila Odinga Thursday pleaded with nomination losers to stick to the party. The NASA chief said his presidential bid in August required the input of every member of the Opposition affiliate parties, including those who lost in the recently-held primaries. Raila was speaking Thursday&nbsp;at his Capitol Hill office in Nairobi after receiving former Subukia MP Koigi Wamwere to NASA. Raila said the Opposition poll losers had a vital role to play to ensure his win against President Uhuru Kenyatta. &quot;NASA requires the contribution of both those who won in the primaries and those who were unlucky and did not make it. They all have a role to play. Everyone is welcome to NASA,&quot; he said. A number of close Raila allies have announced they will run in the coming polls as independent candidates, citing unfairness during the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) nominations. ALSO READ: ODM to endorse Raila Odinga for presidential race They include among others ODM deputy party leader and Funyula MP Paul Otuoma and his West Mugirango counterpart James Gesami. While introducing Mr Wamwere, who recently lost in the Nakuru Jubilee Party senatorial primaries, Raila heaped praises on him, noting that the former political detainee and fierce critic of retired President Daniel Moi was finally &#39;home&#39;. &quot;We have a long history with Koigi,&quot; Raila said. &quot;We were detained several times together as we fought for the second liberation of this country. I am happy to welcome him to NASA,&quot; explained Raila. He disclosed the ex-MP and other leaders from Central Kenya would be formally received today during the ODM National Delegates Conference (NDC). The veteran politician who was accompanied by former Imenti Central MP Kirugi M&#39;Mukindia, said his decision to join NASA was informed by the fact that the Opposition coalition represents the face of Kenya. At the press briefing yesterday, Raila blamed the Jubilee administration for ensuring that the Elections Act, which bars party hopping, was enacted hurriedly. [Daniel Psirmoi] ALSO READ: State warns NASA on anti-poll remarks