Kenyatta National Hospital has over the years lost over half a billion shillings, through patients who sneak out from the facility without paying their bills. Auditor General Edward Ouko in the latest audit report tabled in the National Assembly stated that patients who abscond without paying, have made the largest referral hospital in the country over time to make a loss of Sh0.56 billion. According to the report, in the 2015/2016 financial year alone, patients escaped from the hospital without paying Sh47.5 million. &quot;No explanation has been provided by management for the failure to recover these outstanding debts,&quot; reads the report in part. The auditor in the report tabled in Parliament on Wednesday, also faulted the constitution of the hospital board, pointing out that it does not meet the threshold set by cohesion agency, and that it is dominated by members of one community. &quot;A review of the board indicated the hospital has 11 members, with one community constituting over 36 per cent of the board, contrary to the National Cohesion and Integration Act 2003,&quot; reads the report. The Act states that no single ethnic community should constitute more than 33 per cent of the board members of any national government institution. &quot;The board as currently constituted, is in breach of the law,&quot; adds the report. The report in addition indicts the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) for failing to pay the hospital Sh311 million, which the insurer failed to remit after the hospital provided medical services to its members. According to the report, the hospital in its financial record has indicated that it is owed Sh311 million by NHIF. However, the insurer&#39;s financial statements as at June 2016 reflects Sh67 million, thus resulting to an unexplained variance of Sh243.7 million. &quot;No explanation has been provided by the management for failure to reconcile the two sets of records,&quot; states the report.&nbsp; ALSO READ: Doctors fault starving of KNH surgery patients