The Jubilee Party Appeals Tribunal has so far determined 107 of the 508 cases it has received. Appeals Tribunal Chairperson Faith Waigwa said the verdicts so far include dismissals, re-tallying, and fresh nominations. &ldquo;We have so far received 508 complaints translating to 6.2 per cent of the total number of aspirants on the ballot, so we can conclude that the nominations were a success. We have so far made a ruling on 107 cases,&rdquo; said Waigwa She made reference to one specific verdict where an MP position was being contested in Uasin Gishu County, where fresh nominations will be carried out in one of the polling stations. &nbsp;&ldquo;We could not clearly tell what transpired in Munyaka polling station, so we have called for fresh nominations in that polling station which should be carried out no later than May 3,&rdquo; she said. The specifics of the cases that have been determined will be made public once the secretariat compiles the list and the aspirants are informed about the tribunal&rsquo;s verdict. The tribunal is also not accepting fresh appeals except for votes cast on May 30. ALSO READ: Delivery portal; politics of transparency and accountability The tribunal is burning the midnight oil and is expected to conclude its interrogations on Saturday. Waigwa assured the appellants that the team was working with speed to conclude the appeals in good time. The aspirants who appeared before the tribunal include Kirinyaga governor aspirant Anne Waiguru, Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos, Nakuru Governor Kinuthia Mbugua, and Nairobi Woman Rep Rachel Shebesh. Also appearing before the tribunal were Ms Shebesh&rsquo;s opponent, Millicent Omanga, together with Starehe MP Maina Kamanda. Ms Waiguru said she was confident of her victory to contest for the seat in August. &ldquo;I have answered the tribunal&rsquo;s questions but this was a clear win with a gap of over 50,000 votes,&rdquo; she said. Mr Tolgos said he was confident he would be handed the certificate as he had beaten his opponent. The case filed by Charles Njagua, popularly known as Jaguar, against Kamanda will be determined. Kamanda said he was confident that he would prevail. &nbsp; ALSO READ: Senator Peter Mositet resigns from Jubilee Party after losing primaries