Most of legislators doing their first term in parliament, have understood the role of MPs. That of oversight, legislation and represenation. They could probably be more but allow me to mention just a&nbsp; few who have stood out for me. Let&rsquo;s start with nominated MP Johnson Sakaja. At the age of 29 he was nominated to parliament to champion the interests of young people. So far, Sakaja has managed to push through the national Employment Authority Act that seeks to ensure that youth and marginalised groups get access to employment opportunities. He has been a consistent advocate of greater business opportunities for young people. There may be an argument whether young people are really better or not but as a legislator he has done his part.&nbsp; In case you have forgotten, Senator Martha Wangari also made history during the 11th parliament. She became the first female Senator to successfully sponsor a Bill into law, the County Government Amendment Act that seeks to have nominated MCAs sworn in at the same time as their elected counterparts. She is also the second female legislator after Millie Odhiambo to have a Bill called by her name. ALSO READ: Opinion: Political parties are the bane of our maturing democracy Ladies and gentlemen, you have Nyeri County MP Priscilla Nyokabi to thank for Access to Information Act, one of the key pillars of a free society. This act has been described as a win for whistleblowers, media and the general public. Again, how far are we willing as a society to implement this law, its is not in Priscilla Nyokabi&rsquo;s hands. Across the political divide you have Kenneth Okoth, representative of the people of Kibra. Grassroots women&rsquo;s rights organisations can relate with him for his efforts in the ever elusive 2/3 gender rule! He and his colleague Agostino Neto get a mention for the Green&nbsp;Amendment Campaign that has sought bi-partisan support for this issue that has plagued the 11th parliament for its entire term. Ken Okoth also stands out for his work in Kibra Constituency. He has made great efforts to uplift the standards of education in the area with one of the biggest slums on the continent. ALSO READ: Opinion: Raise quality of voter engagement on issues In 2014 he defended the NYS projects in his area saying his constituents pay taxes and had a right to government services like the clean up exercises and employment into NYS. This at a time when his own party and government were at loggerheads over Devolution CS Waiguru&rsquo;s focus on Kibra with the NYS programs. He could easily have allowed himself to be caught up in party politics between Raila and Waiguru. He did not. Away from the big political parties, we can&rsquo;t forget to mention one Gatobu Kinoti, MP for Buuri who dared set foot into politics independently at the age of 26 and won! Gatobu now seeks to lead the people of Meru as governor, again, as an independent candidate not swayed by any of the party waves sweeping the country. Folks, these young kenyans give me hope. Many of them believe in their parties but they are not sycophants, they simply attempt, against many odds and conventional wisdom, to make a difference. That is what the nation is crying for &ndash; single minded, sober, detribalised Kenyans who will see the country&rsquo;s challenges for what they are and not through jaundiced eyes or politics as usual.&nbsp; ALSO READ: Opinion: Raise quality of voter engagement on issues @YvonneOkwara