&nbsp; Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos Governorship candidates in the North Rift have had a tough time picking their running mates. Their decisions, according to some quarters, are based on wooing more votes besides ensuring gender and regional balance ahead of the August 8 General Election. In Elgeyo Marakwet, anxiety has gripped the county following reports that Governor Alex Tolgos has dropped his deputy Gabriel Lagat. Mr Tolgos, who is from the Marakwet community, has reportedly opted for County Director of Co-operatives Wesley Rotich, who has the backing of the Keiyo community. Registered voters ALSO READ: CJ Maraga tells Raila off over election results appeal There are 100,000 registered Keiyo voters out of the total 175,000 that make up the numbers in Elgeyo Marakwet. &ldquo;Keiyos are the majority and Tolgos&#39; decision to pick Wesley is meant to galvanise the community&#39;s support as they originally planned to front one of their own for the governorship as an independent candidate,&rdquo; said Sammy Kiplagat, a resident of Iten. Women professionals in the county have also expressed concern about the governor&#39;s decision and accused him of failing to ensure that gender balance was upheld. Speaking in Eldoret, the women led by Perpetua Bartoo said it would have been wiser for the governor to allocate the post to a woman. Contacted for comment, the deputy governor said he had not received any official communication. &ldquo;I have not been formally informed about the changes but I have seen many people talking about it on social media, which is not an official communication channel. I am currently in the Senate with the governor representing the residents of Elgeyo Marakwet,&rdquo; he said. In Nandi County, Jubilee governor nominee Senator Stephen Sang has settled on Yulita Mitei, a former lecturer at Moi University. ALSO READ: Governor Jackson Mandago's chief campaigners attacked The decision, according to Mr Sang, was based on Dr Mitei&#39;s academic qualifications and vast experience in leadership besides considering regional balance. Mitei, 47, comes from Mosop constituency and will be the first female to hold the deputy governor position in the North Rift region if Sang is elected. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago has said he will retain his deputy Daniel Chemno. &ldquo;For the past four years, we have enjoyed the best working relations and he will remain my partner in the final term,&rdquo; said Mr Mandago. Mr Chemno, who is from the Keiyo community, was instrumental in consolidating votes needed for a win in the 2013 elections as well as in the recent party primaries. Sources say Mandago&#39;s rival, Kiprop Bundotich &lsquo;Buzeki&rsquo; (independent), is poised to pick Samson Cheruiyot. In Trans Nzoia, Governor Patrick Khaemba has said he will retain his deputy Stanley Tarus due to good relations and regional balance in the cosmopolitan county. ALSO READ: Governor Mandago calls for reduction on retirement age In West Pokot, Jubilee Party&#39;s Governor Simon Kachapin and his deputy Titus Lotee are working closely ahead of the August polls. A different scenario is evident in Turkana following frosty relations displayed publicly between Governor Josphat Nanok and his deputy Peter Ekai. The deputy has jumped ship and joined Jubilee, leaving Mr Nanok to scout for another running mate. Sources indicate that Ekai has joined forces with John Munyes in efforts to unseat Mr Nanok.&nbsp;