One of Kenya&rsquo;s newest sugar companies is banking on irrigation to increase production in readiness for the retail market. Kwale International Sugar Company Limited (Kiscol) also plans to take advantage of the fact that sugarcane at the Coast takes a shorter time to mature compared to other growing zones in Western. Kiscol Agriculture Operations Manager Ravi Chandra told Weekend Business the firm has invested in sustainable agriculture which includes building seven dams with a combined capacity of 20 million cubic litres of water and 30 boreholes. &quot;Kiscol to date uses 80 per cent of water it sources from its dams and boreholes with the surplus going into milling and processing operations,&rsquo;&rsquo; he said. Mr Chandra said last year&rsquo;s drought that ravaged parts of the country impacted heavily on their operations but heavy rains that started in April have brought relief. With modern technology including a sub-surface drip-fed irrigation system, Kiscol is saving on 40 per cent of the water requirements for crop growth, he added. Sugarcane at the Coast takes 12 months to harvest unlike in Western Kenya where the crop takes up to 18 months to mature. Since 2008, Kiscol has been harvesting 60 tonnes of rain-fed cane and 140 tonnes of irrigated cane per hectare. It has 1,100 registered outgrowers producing sugarcane on 4,200 hectares of privately land. &ldquo;Already, we have 2,200 hectares of land under cane on drip irrigation and plan to increase the acreage to 5,000 hectares in due course,&rsquo;&rsquo; said Mr Chandra. Kiscol Assistant General Manager Patrick Chebosi said they are able to crush 3,000 tonnes per day. The company sells its sugar in 50-kilogramme bags, but now plans smaller packages of 2kg, 1kg and even 500 grammes for store shelves. &ldquo;We have taken into consideration the common Kenyan&rsquo;s needs and capabilities hence the need to repackage what we offer into the retail market,&rdquo; said Mr Chebosi during a tour of the mill and 5,500-hectare nucleus farm in Kwale County. He added that they are looking at hitting the market before the end of the year. Modern equipment &ldquo;We have modern packaging equipment and will in due course be importing some to boost our production as we align our production to make Kiscol sugar available,&rdquo; he said. The firm also employs mechanisation that helps to carry out inter-row cultivation. &lsquo;&rsquo;Here trash is mixed with soil while at the same time removing weed,&rsquo;&rsquo; said Mr Chandra. Omnicare, the largest sugar producer in Mauritius, has a 25 per cent stake in Kiscol.&nbsp;