The National Super Alliance (NASA) plans to come up with a foolproof strategy to ensure its votes are not &lsquo;stolen&rsquo;. According to the Opposition alliance, the strategy involves setting up a five-member committee for each polling station. The five NASA principals, led by presidential nominee Raila Odinga, and his deputy, Kalonzo Musyoka, yesterday said the committee members and the agents would be equipped with still and video cameras to shoot the presidential results and relay them to the coalition&rsquo;s headquarters. Raila and Kalonzo, accompanied by co-principals Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Bungoma Senator Moses Wentang&rsquo;ula, Council of Governors Chairman Josephat Nanok (Turkana Governor), and Suba MP Mohammed Junet, were speaking at a rally in Isiolo town. Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto and his Mombasa counterpart, Hassan Joho, sent their apologies. The NASA leaders were hosted by governor aspirants Adan Kabelo (ODM) and Mohammed Guleid (CCM) and assembly Speaker Mohammed Tubi, who is eyeing the Isiolo South parliamentary seat. ALSO READ: Wetang'ula asks DP Ruto to stop insulting NASA leaders &ldquo;NASA will come up with its own register and after every three hours find out who has voted and who hasn&rsquo;t,&rdquo; said Raila. He added: &ldquo;Youths will be sent to mobilise those who have not voted, including the elderly, the sick in hospital wards, and taken to polling stations to vote.&rdquo; Using the results from committee members and agents, a tally will be made. Kalonzo faulted the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) for appealing against the ruling of the High Court that upheld the counting of presidential votes at polling centres as final, claiming the electoral body was being used by Jubilee Party. &ldquo;IEBC is not honest and Jubilee relies on stealing votes in order to claim victory. That is why they are against counting of votes at polling stations,&rdquo; he said. He said peace goes hand in hand with fairness and that IEBC must ensure that the August polls are free and fair. &ldquo;IEBC should know that peace will prevail if it conducts the elections in a free and fair manner. If elections are done fairly, there won&rsquo;t be any problem,&rdquo; said Kalonzo. ALSO READ: Wetang'ula asks DP Ruto to stop insulting NASA leaders The NASA team equated Jubilee Party to the Kanu of 2002 and itself to Narc. The latter ousted the former ruling party from power. &ldquo;We want to win the election in the first round and we urge all our supporters to wake up early and cast their votes,&rdquo; said Mr Mudavadi. Raila claimed IEBC was plotting to remove genuine voters from the register. The leaders accused the Jubilee administration of claiming credit for projects started under the Grand Coalition government.