Embu Governor Martin Wambora Wednesday named Winas Sacco CEO David Kariuki as his running mate in the August 8 polls. Teachers form the bulk of the Sacco&#39;s clients. Mr Wambora also presented Trade and Tourism chief officer Josiah Thiriku as his preferred County Assembly Speaker before a crowd of supporters and residents at Embu stadium Wednesday. Wambora&#39;s choice points at an intricate game of numbers and positioning of political pawns. Mr Kariuki hails from the vote-rich Manyatta constituency and would be an asset to Wambora in clinching the swing votes of the area from where his rival, Senator Lenny Kivuti, also picked a running mate. Going by IEBC statistics, Manyatta has 91,274 registered voters, Runyenjes 83,943 Mbeere South 72,057 and Mbeere North 51, 545. ALSO READ: MCA who stripped naked wins Kisumu Central ODM nominations Kariuki,39, shone as Winas&#39;s marketing and public relations officer before being promoted to head the Sacco where he is credited with its rapid expansion. Before his promotion, he had declared interest in the Manyatta parliamentary seat and caused a stir among youthful voters. He later quit to concentrate on corporate duties. Assembly speaker Thiriku, Wambora&#39;s choice for County Assembly speaker hails from Mbeere North constituency. Apart from assisting Wambora reach the Mbeere community, he would be crucial in affirming regional representation in Wambora&#39;s government. Wambora hails from Runyenjes constituency, which like Manyatta, is populated by Embu community. During Jubilee nominations last month, Wambora beat Runyenjes MP Cecily Mbarire by 20,000 votes, clinching majority votes in Runyenjes and Manyatta. Wambora&#39;s choice of deputy and speaker is a well calculated move meant to ensure he gets a lead over competitors Kivuti and Kiragu for the Manyatta votes. ALSO READ: MCA who stripped naked wins Kisumu Central ODM nominations Kiragu hails from Manyatta and is expected to score well in his backyard while Kivuti who hails from Mbeere has chosen a running mate from Manyatta, former MP Emilio Kathuri.