ODM leader Raila Odinga addresses the National Governing Council meeting at Bomas of Kenya in 2016.&nbsp; Friday will be Opposition Chief Raila Odinga&rsquo;s crowning moment when he is nominated as ODM&rsquo;s presidential candidate. About 3,000 party delegates will congregate at the Kasarani gymnasium for the event as envisaged in the law. Raila has been selected as the joint presidential candidate of the Opposition National Super Alliance (NASA). However, since NASA is a coalition and not a registered political party, Raila&rsquo;s name will appear on the ballot alongside an Orange symbol. It will be Raila&rsquo;s fourth endorsement to run for the presidency and perhaps the last in his decades of political career. ALSO READ: Opinion: Did Kalonzo miss the bigger picture in NASA leadership deal? Two-horse race The former premier was unveiled as the NASA presidential candidate to face President Uhuru Kenyatta in what is billed a two-horse race. While President Kenyatta will be seeking a second term in office, Raila will be making his fourth stab at the presidency having unsuccessfully attempted in 2002, 2007 and 2013. Although he has managed to re-create the &lsquo;Pentagon&rsquo; akin to the one he had in 2007, his lieutenants believe he is a soldier remaining with only one bullet to hit at the target - the presidency. And to make the event spectacular, the Orange party formed a committee to plan logistics and make adequate preparations for tomorrow&rsquo;s exercise. The party&rsquo;s National Chairman John Mbadi said preparations for the ceremony were in top gear, with the committee putting final touches to logistics and the programme. &ldquo;The National Delegates Convention was hurriedly organised but we formed a committee to make preparations and plans for the event. We are on top of things,&rdquo; said Mbadi. His counterpart, Secretary general Agnes Zani, also intimated a number of foreign dignitaries had been invited. ALSO READ: ODM tribunal adjourns after 'Men in black' storm meeting in Nairobi Although she remained tight-lipped on the specific dignitaries who had been invited, sources disclosed that those expected to attend the ceremony include Zimbabwe&rsquo;s Opposition chief Morgan Tsavangirai, a representative of Tanzania&rsquo;s President John Magufuli, a representative of Nigeria&rsquo;s President Muhammadu Buhari and close allies from Rwanda, Uganda, South Sudan and Ethiopia. On December 8, 2013, Tsvangirai - the former Zimbabwe&rsquo;s premier - was full of praise for his Kenyan counterpart and host Raila when he attended the ODM National Delegate&rsquo;s Conference. Then, Tsvangirai told ODM delegates that their choice of presidential candidate was the right man to wield the collective power they were giving him. On a tour of the Kasarani gymnasium, ODM&rsquo;s Executive Director Oduor Ong&rsquo;wen stated that close to 3,000 delegates would attend. Dr Oduor said some 1,000 observers would also grace the occasion. The national delegates will also get a briefing from party secretary general and ratify any other constitutional amendment that may arise. &ldquo;Endorsing the presidential candidate will be the main agenda but we shall also have other agenda,&rdquo; said Ong&rsquo;wen. Raila has already appended his signature to a power-sharing arrangement that should he clinch the presidency, he will be a transitional head of state. ALSO READ: 'Men in black' storm ODM Appeals Tribunal meeting [email&#160;protected]