IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati&nbsp; and Commissioner Roselyne Akombe addressing the press at Anniversary Towers. (Photo: Jenipher Wachie, Standard) Presidential candidates have to submit their nomination papers for clearance to the IEBC at Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC) between May 28 and 29, 2017. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) has also asked all presidential candidates to each submit between today and Monday a list of at least 48,000 supporters who have nominated them. Pre-nomination All candidates are required to attend pre-nomination meetings next Tuesday at venues to be communicated by the commission. The commission has further directed aspirants forward and National Assembly positions to submit their nomination papers for clearance to the IEBC&#39;s returning officers at the constituency level between June 1 and June 2, 2017. ALSO READ: Kenyans set for the longest ballot paper ever &quot;For the Senate, gubernatorial and County Woman Member of the National Assembly position, Independent candidates and political party aspirants have to submit their nomination papers for clearance to the commission&#39;s returning officers at the county level between May 28 and June 2, 2017,&quot; the IEBC said. The directive comes a day after the IEBC chiefs wound up their two-day retreat in Nanyuki. The training, sponsored by International Foundation for Electoral Systems (IFES), brought together all commissioners and all officers from the directorate of legal affairs, to review several programmes and issues ahead of the August 8 polls. Code of conduct Among the issues discussed were enforcement of the code of conduct, dispute resolution mechanism, election laws, regulations and rules and the vetting of candidates submitted by political parties. &quot;This was a scheduled meeting which had been planned a long time ago,&quot; Commissioner Roselyn Akombe told The Standard, adding that it was more of an internal meeting to discuss a wide variety of issues. ALSO READ: Opinion: Intimidating Judiciary, IEBC over appeal bad for opposition