Sour grapes or simply the green-eyed monster, Cyrus Jirongo is a has-been in the politics of Western Kenya. Like the white ants that are a delicacy in that part of the country and which come during the rainy season, Jirongo comes alive when another Luhya leader is in the limelight and often, around election time. Even though it has never benefited him politically to swim against the tide, Jirongo nonetheless never tires. The recent naming of the National Super Alliance&rsquo;s presidential flag bearer brought him out of the barrow in which he had been hibernating. Like every other community in Kenya, the Luhya community has a spokesman in the person of Musalia Mudavadi. By the powers conferred upon him in a ceremony at Bukhungu stadium in Kakamega last year, Mudavadi has the authority, in consultation with community elders and other leaders, to chart the way forward for the community. Weakened soldiers Where does Jirongo draw the authority to purport to convene a meeting to chart the way forward for the Luhya? But in that state of denial, Jirongo is not alone. He has a twin in Francis Nyenze, the self-appointed Kamba community spokesman. How the obvious eludes these two gentlemen at high noon is anybody&rsquo;s guess. They should, however, wake up and smell the coffee. Between Jubilee and NASA rages a battle of wits, the slant being on personalities and poorly packaged propaganda. Raila, for instance, is depicted as a bogeyman out to take away what some people have laboriously worked for. Uhuru on the other hand is portrayed as a vampire sucking the red juice out of Kenyans. ALSO READ: NASA warns IEBC, Jubilee on provisional results appeal The just concluded acrimonious party nomination exercise took the steam out of the warriors on both sides. Some of baba&rsquo;s strong defenders are seriously wounded and limping. Known names on the Jubilee side that would have propagated the bogeyman narrative are smarting under humiliating defeats. Faced with the option of sliding into political oblivion or going on as independent candidates, it is doubtful they will have the energy to fight for either Raila or Uhuru, especially with their own fight for political survival. Riding on this is the probable emergence of another centre of power marshalled by the moneyed elite in Jubilee who were torpedoed. Kiambu Governor William Kabogo is a known fighter, so when he threw in the towel too easily, many suspected he was merely retreating to plan something. In Africa, Kenya in particular, leaders feel a sense of entitlement to good fortune and success. To them, failure can only be orchestrated by their enemies and already a focal point for recriminations by some in Jubilee is William Ruto. That statement by Kabogo sometimes back (though he tried to play it down) that Central Kenya&rsquo;s support for William Ruto in 2022 was not guaranteed; later taken up by nominated Senator Paul Njoroge, might not have been idle chat. No longer enjoying the stranglehold he had on Rift Valley in 2013, William Ruto will be savaged. While Central Kenya is safely tucked away, Rift Valley is not. It is the weak link in Jubilee because Chama Cha Mashinani, NASA and Kanu have large followership in the Rift Valley. Worth of note is the fact that most of the candidates perceived to have had the deputy president&rsquo;s backing in the nominations did not fare well. His detractors within Jubilee could work on this to weaken him as they position their favourite for 2022 and for that, NASA&rsquo;s job is made easy. Working on William Ruto&rsquo;s real or perceived shortcomings, an abundance of which there is, will be advantageous to the Opposition. For Jubilee, the rough ride just began but on the opposite side, the turbulence created by anxiety over the presidential flag bearer is finally over. Discounting the feeble Nyenze ripples, the seas are relatively calm. But don&rsquo;t be deluded NASA principals did not have a line-up all the while. It was breaking the news that presented the headache. It was particularly hard after the Kamba vehemently demanded their turn at the helm. The Luhya, convinced NASA was their brainchild, laid stake to the mantle. To the Luo, it was inconceivable that Raila deputizes anyone. Duping ALSO READ: So much hot air from NASA naysayers ignores real facts NASA was clever to leak its line-up and government structure, deny it then keep on postponing the big day and allow competitors to spread the word. That conditioned their hard-line supporters to get used to the idea, even accept it. The weak narrative a Raila ticket guaranteed failure did not jell. It would have been easy for Jubilee to trounce NASA without Raila at the helm. By declaring they understood Raila well, therefore could handle him, it was Jubilee&rsquo;s hope NASA followers would buy the line and exert pressure on the party to choose a Kalonzo/Mudavadi ticket. Promisingly, nomination trends have indicated Kenyans know what they want and will go for it, empty rhetoric notwithstanding. Whether Jubilee has delivered or not largely depends on where one stands. Kenyans already know what dirt the opposing sides have on each other. Now is the time to ventilate issues that directly and adversely affect the common man. Yes, the bread and butter matters. Mr Chagema is a correspondent at The Standard. [email&#160;protected]