Kakamega governorship aspirant Boni Khalwale (left) and NASA co-principal Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula during a recent Ford Kenya rally at Khwisero sports ground. [File, Standard] NASA co-principal Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula has asked Deputy President William Ruto to respect Opposition leaders and desist from hurling insults at them while campaigning for Jubilee. Speaking at Kabula trading centre in Bungoma during campaigns, Mr Wetang&rsquo;ula said the DP has been demeaning him and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi ever since they endorsed ODM&rsquo;s Raila Odinga&rsquo;s presidential bid. He told Ruto that the ruling party will not get votes in Western even if he continues to make numerous trips to the region. The Ford Kenya party leader also took issue with the DP for criticising assertions by NASA leaders that they have more than 10 million votes. ALSO READ: Battle taken to the skies with 50 helicopters listed &ldquo;We have checked the numbers from NASA strongholds and we have over 10 million votes in our basket. The DP should be told that western Kenya will not be a swing vote as it has been the case in the past,&rdquo; he said. Wetang&rsquo;ula said the Jubilee administration had failed to cushion Kenyans from the high cost of living and should be voted out. &ldquo;A government that commits economic crime on its people does not warrant to be called a government. With the high cost of living, Jubilee should be sent home. You will see how NASA will uplift the lives of Kenyans after the August polls,&rdquo; Wetang&rsquo;ula said He said NASA will ensure that all Kenyans get a share of the national cake. He said that the runaway corruption such as the NYS saga, the Eurobond, the health scam and the latest controversial importation of maize from Mexico was a clear indication that the Government was not concerned with the welfare of ordinary Kenyans. Tongaren MP and Ford Kenya Secretary General Simiyu Eseli claimed the Jubilee administration was planning to rig the August elections by posting returning officers from one community to man elections in Western region. He said they would not allow the said officers to oversee the elections in Western. ALSO READ: Battle taken to the skies with 50 helicopters listed He asked the Wafula Chebukati-led Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to re-consider its move in a bid to have free and fair elections. Dr Eseli also scoffed at Jubilee pointmen in the region, for allegedly being after handouts. In Western region, Jubilee pointmen are MPs Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East), Bernard Shinali (Ikolomani), Emmanuel Wangwe (Navakholo), John Waluke (Sirisia), Dan Wanyama (Webuye West), Boniface Otsiula (Bumula) and Bungoma Governor Ken Lusaka.