Former police commissioner Matthew Iteere is expected to testify in July in an abuse of office case against two former senior police officers. The hearing of the case against former Rift Valley Provincial Police boss John M&rsquo;Mbijiwe and the former Anti-Stock Theft Unit Commandant Remi Ngugi is slated for July 26, August 2 and 16. This is after Nakuru Principal Magistrate Joe Omido, who was to hear the case on June 5, 6 and 7, said he would not be sitting on the three dates as he would be out attending to other official duties, prompting him to issue new hearing dates. Mr Iteere had been summoned to appear in the Nakuru court on June 5 to explain what he knew about the recruitment of police imposter Joshua Waiganjo. It is alleged that Waiganjo, who is serving a five-year jail term at Naivasha Prison, enjoyed protection from Iteere and other senior police officers during the time he masqueraded as an assistant police commissioner. Waiganjo purportedly enjoyed use of Government vehicles during the time he was in the police force, and was part of a high-profile delegation to Baragoi after an attack that left at least 42 police officers dead. ALSO READ: Police imposter Waiganjo gets nod to vie for Njoro seat Bosses&rsquo; blessings According to witnesses who testified earlier, Waiganjo was not an ordinary &ldquo;police officer&rdquo;. He had powers to assist people join the police force without going through the recruitment exercise and those who sought his help said they had to part with huge sums of money. Other top officers have given their testimonies on how they worked with Waiganjo, with some saying they feared him as he had the blessings of their bosses. Waiganjo used to don full police uniform, which he paid local tailors to make for him. Former Njoro OCPD Peter Nthiga is among the witnesses who have testified that Waiganjo was made untouchable by senior police officers. Waiganjo still insists that he was a police officer but failed to prove his recruitment into the police service, earning himself the jail term. His appeal against the term will be heard today in a Naivasha court.&nbsp; ALSO READ: 3 police imposters arrested after dramatic chase in Mombasa