It is now clear that the choice of running mates will play a big role in determining who becomes governor in Nyanza&rsquo;s six counties. The incumbent governors and their opponents have been holding consultative meetings and weighing delicate balancing acts over who to pick as running mates and how their choices will impact on their chances of getting the big seats. Some have picked, while others, including the incumbents, are still torn between several options. The Sunday Standard has learnt that clannism and voting blocs are the main determinants in picking running mates. In Kisumu, Governor Jack Ranguma, who is defending his seat as an independent candidate after ODM picked Senator Anyang&rsquo; Nyong&rsquo;o in the nominations, is searching for another running mate after his current Deputy Ruth Odinga decamped to the Nyong&rsquo;o camp last week. Ruth has since revealed that she had a pact with Nyong&rsquo;o that she would be his running mate. Kisumu County is made up of five major clans; Kano, Nyakach, Seme, Kisumo and Kajulu. There are also non-locals, who mostly reside within the cosmopolitan Kisumu Central Constituency and have bargained for their space as an alternative clan. During the 2013 elections, the leaders pushed for fair distribution of the four county positions; governor, senator, woman representative and deputy governor, with Kano getting the governor and woman representative, while Seme and non-locals got senator and deputy governor, respectively. ALSO READ: NASA and Jubilee lay winning plans In the current formation, Nyong&rsquo;o has already crafted a team which include; senator from Kano, woman representative from Kisumo, and himself as governor from Seme. He has however remained silent on the position of deputy governor, which has now attracted fierce lobbying from non-locals and Nyakach clan. In a statement by Strategic Nyakach, a group of professionals from the clan, the community is pushing for the position of deputy governor. The group says Nyakach missed out in the 2013 lineup, a situation they say did not allow them to participate in the county development agenda. They have since proposed pharmacist Mathew Owili to be Nyong&rsquo;o&rsquo;s running mate. But even as the team pushes for their candidate, Ruth has come out to defend what is &ldquo;rightfully mine&rdquo;. Balancing act &ldquo;I hear people being proposed here and there to take up my position. I am clear that the position must be reserved for women, and having gained experience and sacrificed my gubernatorial ambitions for Nyong&rsquo;o, I will defend what is rightfully mine,&rdquo; she told Sunday Standard. ALSO READ: It&rsquo;s the season for pollsters but will they get their numbers right? Dr Hezron McObewa, who initially wanted to be governor but lost in the ODM primaries, also wants to be Nyong&rsquo;o&rsquo;s running mate. Ranguma, on the other hand, is said to be looking for a running mate from either Kisumo or Nyakach. Speaking to the press on Thursday, he promised to unveil his running mate soon. In Siaya, Governor Cornel Rasanga has not indicated whether he will keep his current deputy Ouma Onyango, who hails from Sakwa clan in Bondo Sub-county. Sources say even if he was to replace him, the new running mate must come from the same clan, which is the home of NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga. Rasanga&rsquo;s opponent, Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo, who is running as an independent candidate, recently announced he had picked former Kisumu and Mombasa town clerk Tubman Otieno as his running mate. Otieno is from Alego clan. In Kisii County, Governor James Ongwae is hunting for a running mate after his current deputy Joash Maangi defected from ODM to Jubilee. His main challenger, Senator Chris Obure, has proposed Alfred Nyangweso as his running mate in a bid to get the votes from his Kitutu clan. Governor John Nyangarama of Nyamira is also still searching for a running mate and is scrutinising names proposed to him by his advisers. It is highly unlikely he will retain his current deputy, Amos Nyaribo, with whom he has had controversies throughout the five-year term. Jubilee aspirant Walter Nyambati has named Dennis Abincha from Bogirango as his running mate. In Migori, Governor Okoth Obado has not stated whether or not he will retain his deputy Mahaga Mwita from Kuria. He however said on Friday that his deputy must be from the same community to sustain a regional balance. His challenger, Ochilo Ayacko who is an independent candidate, is yet to pick a running mate. ALSO READ: It&rsquo;s the season for pollsters but will they get their numbers right? In Homa Bay, Governor Cyprian Awiti has retained his deputy Hamilton Orata, who is from Ndhiwa. Awiti&rsquo;s opponent, Oyugi Magwanga, is also eyeing a running mate from the same sub-county.