National Super Alliance (NASA) presidential candidate Raila Odinga moved to stem a revolt from independent candidates and party nomination losers by promising to change tack in his campaigns. In a bid to woo back losers still sore from the shambolic primaries, Raila met with some Nyanza politicians in Nairobi to get their endorsement for the top job. The three-hour meeting saw bitter losers vent their anger and criticise the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party over the shambolic nominations. Raila clarified that he had not condemned independent candidates but was duty bound as a candidate of a political party to support those in ODM to avoid conflict of interest. Their right &quot;I have not condemned independent candidates. It is their right to leave the party and run as independents. But it would be a conflict of interest if I campaigned for independents and left out my ODM flag bearers,&quot; he said. ALSO READ: Rift Valley votes belong to Raila, leaders tell DP Ruto Raila added that NASA principals had agreed in principle to back candidates from their individual parties. &quot;I will support ODM candidates, Kalonzo Musyoka will back Wiper team mates, Moses Wetang&#39;ula will support Ford Kenya candidates, Musalia Mudavadi will root for Amani National Congress candidates and Isaac Ruto will campaign for those in CCM (Chama Cha Mashinani),&quot; he said. Bad precedent &quot;Even diplomats are concerned that Kenya would set a bad precedent if many independent candidates are elected as it would signal the demise of political parties. Raila explained that a parliamentary system worked well only when political parties were strong. &quot;We must not kill the spirit of political parties in Kenya to build a firm political base for the presidency.&quot; He said independent candidates were not new to Kenyan politics. They were there even in the 1963 elections in Kisumu. Luke Odede, who lost in the Kanu primaries to Amir Jamal, is one example. ALSO READ: Vote for Raila, Governor Ruto urges Kalenjin community Raila said he would soon call a meeting in Kisumu for all aspirants, including ODM losers, to unite them. His team began countrywide campaigns in Isiolo yesterday and will be in Baring today. On Thursday they will head to West Pokot before Mumias on Saturday. On Sunday, Raila will present his presidential nomination papers and hold a rally at Jacaranda grounds. He will be in Nyeri on Madaraka Day, when he is expected to share a platform with President Uhuru Kenyatta. Those invited to the meeting included Gordon Wayumba, Ayiecho Olweny, Richard Muga, former PS Carey Orege, Nyatike MP Omondi Anyanga and Kisumu Woman Rep Rose Nyamunga.