President Uhuru Kenyatta is set for a hectic schedule this May as he handles local and foreign engagements even as he gets ready to embark on the busy campaign trail ahead of the August polls. The President&rsquo;s busy schedule starts Monday when he is expected to attend the 26th Governing Council of the United Nations Human Settlement Programme (UN-Habitat). The Conference is expected to set the political tone and shape the implementation of the New Urban Agenda. The conference, whose theme is &ldquo;opportunities for effective implementation of the New Urban Agenda&rdquo; will run until May 12th. State House Spokesperson Manoah Esipisu said President Kenyatta will also host the President of Benin, Patrice Talon, within the week. &ldquo;President Kenyatta and President Talon will discuss matters of mutual interest to both Kenya and Benin,&rdquo; said Mr Esipisu. After the end of the official visit by President Talon, President Kenyatta will travel to London to attend the Third London Conference on Somalia on 11th May. ALSO READ: Kanu endorse President Kenyatta's re-election bid at NDC The conference follows the previous two where the international community agreed to inject new momentum into the political process to stabilise Somalia; to strengthen AMISOM and help Somalia develop its own security forces; to help build stability and to tackle pirates and terrorists. After the London conference, President Kenyatta will head to China to attend the Belt and Road Forum. President Kenyatta will join 28 other Heads of State to attend the leaders&rsquo; roundtable summit on May 15 at the forum whose theme is &ldquo;Strengthening International Cooperation and Co-building the &lsquo;Belt and Road&rsquo; for Win-Win Development&rdquo;. The forum focuses on the Silk Road Economic Belt and the 21st Century Maritime Silk Road initiated by China. Kenya is part of the countries covered by 21st Century Maritime Silk Road. &ldquo;The initiative aims to promote common development through win-win cooperation,&rdquo; said Mr Esipisu when he briefed the press at State House, Nairobi. He said Kenya stands to benefit immensely from the Chinese initiative since it is a natural maritime route. &ldquo;Through the LAPPSET project, this creates an extension of the Maritime Silk Road. This will create massive economic advantages for Kenya,&rdquo; said Mr Esipisu. ALSO READ: Mutua: Why Maendeleo Chap Chap endorsed President Uhuru On a bilateral level, Kenya and China&rsquo;s relations remain strong and as a result of this partnership. Kenya has benefited from its cooperation with China and some of the significant projects resulting from the partnership include the Standard Gauge Railway and the first three berths at Lamu Port. The President&rsquo;s busy official schedule comes as he gets ready for the campaign trail ahead of the August elections. During his briefing, Mr Esipisu also spoke on the Government&rsquo;s plan to tackle the rising costs of maize flour. He said National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich is working on the budget plan to bring a sustainable solution of the issue.