The sophistication displayed by manufacturers of fake products is mind-boggling, making it very hard to differentiate them from genuine ones. Nairobi&#39;s Luthuli Avenue at the heart of the city is a renowned one-stop centre for electronics. It shares prominence with Kirinyaga Road, which is equally famed for selling automobile spare parts as well as hosting a number of city mechanics. The display of an assortment of electronics and loud music from the stalls along the avenue is a notable feature. Anyone walking along is perceived as a potential client; therefore it&#39;s hard to miss a seller winking at you to check out his wares, with the common &quot;bei ni kuongea&quot; (price is negotiable) teaser. As a matter of fact, Luthuli houses sellers of genuine and contraband goods. Na&iuml;ve buyers who might not be quite aware of the quality of the goods they intend to buy are more likely to buy either fake gadgets or pay exorbitant prices. ALSO READ: Samsung celebrates Galaxy S8 launch in Nairobi Woe unto you if you come across as clueless about the exact specification or approximate price of the electronic device you intend to buy. Tales abound of buyers who ended up buying contraband products that spoiled or malfunctioned barely days after purchase. The sophistication displayed by manufacturers of fake products is mind-boggling, such that some products even bear the names similar to the&nbsp; known genuine global brands. A buyer who is not keen or is unable to differentiate between genuine and contraband products can easily fall for the trick. Such unfortunate victims end up a bitter lot, who might have to contend with repairing substandard products. Indeed it is frustrating to buy, say, a TV set and barely a week later, it blows up or develops a technical problem. And since such devices rarely come with a warranty, you are forced to pay the same seller to have it repaired. In other instances, this can lead to a cycle that ends up draining one&#39;s finances. The same applies to the myriad of cheap smart phones with funny names. To avoid being a victim of such unscrupulous dealers, there are tips you might need to be safe. Before you buy any product, try to do some background check to find out more about its specifications, and the features that distinguish it from contraband. Most importantly, consult a friend or colleague who is familiar with the workings of a product you want to buy. They can direct you to a trustworthy dealer who would sell you a genuine electronic product. When you venture out to Luthuli Avenue or any other electronics&#39; hub, make sure you know what you want, and also must understand issues such as warranty, terms and conditions. Alternatively, you can tag along a tech-savvy friend.