The Tourism ministry deserves commendation for the planned setting up of an entity specifically tasked with marketing the country as a business and conference tourism destination. Indeed, the establishment of the Kenya National Convention and Exhibition Bureau (KeNCEB) has been long overdue considering that while Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC) has been doing a good job at marketing the country to that end, the potential has not been fully exploited. But the setting up of KeNCEB is but the first step in a journey of a thousand miles as the famous Chinese adage goes. This means the ministry&mdash;with the help of the rest of government and the private sector&mdash;needs to think outside the box to come up with new strategies that will grow the industry and enable it to play its envisaged role in the Vision 2030 economic blueprint. Towards this end, the ministry could borrow a leaf from other countries that have successfully developed many innovative products that have enabled them remain competitive in a challenging operating environment. A recent report authored by the World Economic Forum (WEF) says Kenya&rsquo;s cultural and business tourism segments are below global average despite the country&rsquo;s rich cultural diversity.&nbsp; ALSO READ: Coast hoteliers aim for emerging Halal tourism This should be a matter of concern to authorities considering that the two segments had a score of 1.6 points out of a possible seven while countries such as China and Spain had a near-perfect score of 6.8 points. The role of the National Treasury in facilitating the drawing up of new strategies for the industry cannot be gainsaid because individual ministries are usually under-funded unless the mandarins who pull the purse strings are convinced there will be a reasonable return on investment. Yet, without adequate funding as new opportunities arise, the people charged with drawing up policies for the proposed agency are likely to lose heart even before the work begins. Never before has the need to move the industry away from the traditional beach and bush tourism that thrives on showcasing the country&rsquo;s wildlife and other natural resources been more pressing. HIGHLY UNDERFUNDED The success of the country&rsquo;s efforts to grow its numbers to match those of leading tourist destinations is also dependent on other state departments and agencies playing their assigned roles with greater commitment than they have demonstrated so far. Tourism Finance Corporation (TFC) is a good example of State agencies that have not lived up to expectation largely because they are highly underfunded. ALSO READ: Famed Swiss climber Ueli Steck dies on Everest: officials Reports that the corporation got only Sh800 million against a request of Sh5 billion could easily lead to a general sense of despair all round. This is despite the fact that the institution plays a crucial role as its counterpart, the Kenya Tourism Development Corporation (KTDC) in growing the sector. The only logical conclusion, therefore, would be that the powers-that-be need to take the bull by the horns, restructure the corporation, audit its personnel, get rid of those who do not fit in the new structure and hire qualified personnel to deliver on its new mandate. Top on the list of the new mandate would be to finance Kenyans to venture into the industry. &nbsp;