The Director of Public Prosecutions has established a team of 105 officers to handle electoral offences, hate speech and incitement to violence cases as political campaigns enter the homestretch. The team will be served by a 24 hour secretariat to coordinate and facilitate the prosecution team. DPP Keriako Tobiko said he had established a framework for inter-agency collaboration between his office, Directorate of Criminal Investigations, IEBC and National Cohesion and Integration Commission for effective detection, investigation and timely prosecution of election offences. &quot;The DPP assures members of the public that his office has put in place election preparedness measures aimed at ensuring that all cases of criminal nature will be dealt with effectively and suspects brought to account to ensure a secure environment for a free, fair and peaceful election,&quot; Tobiko said in statement signed by Secretary of Public Prosecutions Dorcas Oduor. He said so far, an aspiring governor, and MP as well as two sitting MCAs are among the 62 people who have been charged in 32 election related offences in the just concluded party primaries. The individuals face charges that include unauthorised possession of election material, damage of election material, bribery of voters, unauthorised entry into election centres and, malicious damage to property. ALSO READ: DPP instructs police to investigate Migori rally chaos &quot;Already one person has been convicted and fined Sh50,000 or three months imprisonment by a Nanyuki court for creating disturbance during Jubilee Party nominations last week,&quot; said the DPP. There are fears of chaos ahead of the August 8 polls. Various conflicts have also been identified. Conflicts identified include cattle rustling, terror attacks, protests and riots, ethnic clashes and agro-pastoralist. Identified hotspots include- Nairobi, Kiambu, Murang&#39;a, Kirinyaga, Isiolo, Laikipia, Nakuru, Kericho, Uasin Gishu, Nandi, Siaya, Kisumu, Homabay, Migori, Meru, Mombasa and Baringo. Counties with low cases include Kitui, Makueni, Kajiado, Embu, Machakos, Garissa, Wajir, Taita Taveta and Trans Nzoia. All Police County, Unit and Formation commanders have been ordered to re-draw their operational orders after the nominations are over for better coverage in the main polls. ALSO READ: How EACC almost lost Sh700 million in office block deal