No sooner had the NASA alliance named their presidential flag bearer and the formula for sharing power, than Jubilee-leaning pundits started poking holes and making fun of it. Even President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto made what looked like a victory lap to their Kiambu County stronghold after successful Jubilee Party nominations on the day NASA came to town. I am sure their media strategists advised them to not let NASA steal the limelight. They discredited the power-sharing arrangement as unworkable and unconstitutional. They also wondered what benefits would accrue to the respective communities which the Opposition principals represent. In fact, Mr Ruto, with great mirth and a tinge of pride, wondered why it had taken NASA so long to name a candidate then end up with the 2013 line-up. The line-up is not the same and he knows that. Arguments like Kalonzo Musyoka got a raw deal and that the plan to have premier Cabinet secretaries is unconstitutional are mere sideshows from those who are fixed in time. We all know the law was made for man and not the other way round. So those engaging in nit-picking are missing the point.The truth of the matter is, it is wrong to argue that the communities the principals represent got a raw deal. After all and as far as I know, our competitors in Jubilee have reminded us more than once that Government is not about ethnicity and the distribution of state largesse. Nothing changed Or has that changed? Why have they changed what they believe in? Inclusivity? Because that is all what NASA is about. The expectation that a leader&rsquo;s community hugely benefits because of his or her leadership position is the reason why ineptitude, mediocrity and corruption thrive in our society. It is the incubator of the mantra; it is our time to eat. ALSO READ: Joyce Laboso proposes return of County Development Boards' bill NASA is an all-inclusive tent with all communities represented. So nothing really is wrong with the NASA deal. If we scrutinize further, the legal aspect of the power sharing arrangement is not illegal in the NASA arrangement. The creation of premier cabinet position is an innovative way of streamlining government operations. Nobody wants the unwieldy government bureaucracy any more. Nobody other than Jubilee wants to excuse the ineffectiveness and the laissez faire attitude we see in Government. Jubilee has tried, but failed to bring down the cartels that prop up &ldquo;the bandit economy&rdquo;. The cake is big enough to go around. Nobody tells you that.Let me tell you; the strength of the coalition does not lie in the positions shared, but more in acknowledging that decisions are made collectively. The proverbial killing two birds using one stone; a more inclusive Kenya and a united, diverse society. Secondly and perhaps most importantly, the relationship between the co-principals is one based on mutual understanding; that first, they know and appreciate the need to join hands and wrestle power from Jubilee. It has been rigorous in its intent to serve as the alternative government holding the feet of those in government to the fire. So the co-principals have no choice but to stick together. The alternative was to walk separate ways and await the inevitable humiliating loss in August. The expectations by the likes of Francis Nyenze that if it is not Kalonzo then there is no NASA does not hold water because whatever divergent opinion that existed amongst us has been put aside for the bigger objective; that of taking back our country. NASA brings back memories of the wave that swept away Kanu in 2002. That mighty Kanu machinery believed it was invincible just like Jubilee is in 2017. I draw parallels with NASA&rsquo;s Uhuru Park rally and Jubilee&rsquo;s Thika road excursion with two rallies in October; one at Uhuru Park and the other at Kasarani on Thika Road. Quite ironically, the party that held its meeting at Uhuru Park went on to win the elections. Nothing shows that the election is all sewn up in Jubilee&rsquo;s favour. In fact it is a fallacy to think so. One week in politics is a long time, they say, and given the jitters our launch has caused, the coming election will be down to the wire. ALSO READ: ODM to release complete list of winners this week