NAIROBI, KENYA: OPPO F3 is finally on sale in Kenyan market with pre-order sales exceeding the expected number. According to OPPO Kenya, the hype around the new Smartphone device is continuing to grow, with 62 per cent of the mobile market made up of devices worth more than Sh.50, 000, OPPO F3 costs Sh.32, 999. &quot;The pre-order demand for the F3 in Kenya has surpassed all expectations,&quot; OPPO KENYA CEO Mr. Andrew Peng said. The F3 model is the first from the company to go through the pre-order process and the hype around the latest device has helped drive pre-orders. &quot;There&#39;s a real trend towards premium devices now so anytime a new premium device comes out from OPPO it&#39;s bigger than the last, the quality of the device is extraordinary in terms of what you can do with it.&quot; He added. OPPO KENYA did not give specifics on how many devices had been pre-ordered, but said it had guaranteed pre-order customers to receive the devices before it went on sale to the public. The company had allowed pre-orders through in store at Emperor Plaza, providing a greater opportunity for customers to pre-purchase the device. &quot;There has also been a lot of hype around this device - people are genuinely excited about what the device could do for them,&quot; Andrew said. OPPO offered a number of additional mobile accessory freebies that include a Selfiestick, Power bank, Wireless headphones and Bluetooth speaker estimated at Sh.16, 000. The OPPO F3 will feature a dual front-facing selfie camera ; a high-resolution 16MP shooter for high quality selfies with beautification technology, paired with an 8MP wide-angle shooter with a field-of-view that is 2 times larger than standard selfie camera for group selfies. It is powered by an Octa-core processor backed&nbsp; by 4GB RAM&nbsp; and&nbsp; 64GB ROM and offers a triple-slot card tray that can hold two Nano 4G SIM cards with a micro SD card expanding memory to up to 128GB. OPPO is a camera phone brand enjoyed by young people around the world. For the last 10 years, OPPO has been focusing on manufacturing camera phones, while innovating mobile photography technology breakthroughs. OPPO started the era of selfie beautification, and was the first brand to launch smartphones with 5MP and 16MP front cameras. OPPO was also the first brand to introduce the motorized rotating camera, the Ultra HD feature and the 5x Dual Camera Zoom technology. OPPO&#39;s Selfie Expert F-series launched in 2016 drove a selfie trend in the Smartphone industry. &nbsp;