Wiper Democratic Movement - Kenya Party Leader Kalonzo Musyoka on Tuesday said he has no differences with Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama, who vowed to campaign against Wiper. Watch: Muthama defends his Kalonzo fallout. Speaking at Bomas of Kenya after issuing nomination certificates to Wiper candidates, Mr Musyoka said he does not know how to insult his opponents. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know how to throw stones at people. I love my opponents whether in Nasa or Jubilee,&rdquo; said Mr Musyoka. But some of Mr Musyoka&rsquo;s associates had no kind words for Mr Muthama, except Wiper Secretary-General Hassan Omar Hassan, who asked him to change his position. Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana accused those opposed to Mr Musyoka, saying they must respect him. &ldquo;As supporters and leaders of Wiper, we must respect the party leadership from the top and we should not shy away from saying so,&rdquo; said Prof Kibwana. ALSO READ: Why angry Muthama dumped Kalonzo The party&rsquo;s Machakos County returning officer, Mr Jacob Mutula, described Mr Muthama as Judas Escariot, saying he should be allowed to go and should not hold the party at ransom. But Mr Hassan said the party appreciates Mr Muthama for the role he has played. &ldquo;Senator Muthama, Wiper is not in a fight with you. I ask you to come back. I have made this appeal to you in private and public. You cannot campaign for Raila Odinga, who is Nasa presidential candidate without campaigning for Mr Musyoka, they are tied on the hip.&rdquo; Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr said the exit of Mr Muthama is a blow to the party but admitted that the party nominations that caused the rift between the two leaders could have been done better. &ldquo;He had a valid reason to question the exercise but he should not have left the party he helped build,&rdquo; said Mr Kilonzo Jnr, saying Mr Muthama is the Wiper candidate in Machakos. At the same time, Mr Musyoka asked his supporters to back him, saying he will be president in 2022. &ldquo;Uhuru Kenyatta will not be around, so I have responsibility to unite Kenyans and take over after Mr Odinga is gone.&rdquo; ALSO READ: The real forces behind Wavinya-Kiala tussle Source:&nbsp;https://goo.gl/nUq8Jk