Deputy President William Ruto Saturday took Jubilee campaigns to Kajiado and Makueni counties where he enticed the&nbsp;electorate&nbsp;to vote for him. Ruto dismissed the National Super Alliance (NASA) line-up and told the two communities that even former Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka, knew the Opposition cannot win the August General Election. The Deputy President told Kambas that their future was bleak in the Opposition and urged them to support Jubilee. Addressing wananchi at Mavindini, Wote and Mukuyuni grounds in Makueni, Ruto said Jubilee would win with a bigger margin. &ldquo;Kalonzo is a good man who is just wasting his time in the Opposition. He has no future there. He knows that it will be very difficult for the Opposition to beat Jubilee,&rdquo; said Ruto. Ruto was accompanied by National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale, MPs Regina Ndambuki (Kilome), Kisoi Munyao (Mbooni) and Richard Makenga (Kaiti). ALSO READ: Brace for defeat, Kalonzo tells Wiper rivals in his backyard Others were former MPs Peter Maundu, Peter Kiilu, Gideon Ndambuki and Kalembe Ndile. The Kamba leaders said NASA had shortchanged the Kamba community by failing to support Kalonzo for the top seat. &ldquo;As a community, we have no stake in NASA. Our hope remains in Jubilee,&rdquo; said Kisoi. Duale told the residents that it was pointless to vote for NASA&rsquo;s Raila Odinga. &ldquo;No one goes into elections with the aim of ending up being in the Opposition. People go to polls to win,&rdquo; said Duale. Ndambuki asked the locals to support Uhuru&rsquo;s re-election because of his commitment to the transform the country. &ldquo;The government of President Kenyatta has done a lot in Ukambani,&rdquo; she said. And in Kajiado County, the Jubilee leaders said NASA had lost support among the pastoralists. The leaders said they are optimistic pastoralists will deliver more than 95 per cent of votes to Jubilee. Governor aspirant Joseph ole Lenku said he was optimistic voters in the area will vote for Jubilee because it is focused on service delivery. Cabinet Secretaries Joseph Nkaisery (Interior), Dan Kazungu (Mining) and Eugene Wamalwa (Water and Irrigation) were present.&nbsp; ALSO READ: Mungatana unveils his running mate