These days, modern construction sites have huge trucks with big rotating tanks in their parking. The trucks mix cement and other ingredients to make concrete, meaning these sites need fewer men for koroga. The hordes of young people who once characterised construction sites are not there anymore. Tea can be picked by machines. Cars nowadays come with self-repairing kits that have left tyre-repairers jobless &ndash; the creation of tubeless tyres was not enough of a letdown for hustlers. Look around and you&rsquo;ll see lots of hustlers&rsquo; traditional jobs are threatened by computers. In some European and American supermarkets, there are no cashiers. Technology is the greatest threat to hustlers who thrive on inefficiencies or in areas where automation is hard. Despite having shaving machines, we still need barbers. Double-edged sword As we get more modernised, hustlers&rsquo; traditional areas of operation are either threatened or shrinking. Do you recall mechanics sucking petrol to spit on the carburettor to restart a car? What do they do today? What happened to all the radio and watch repairers when we went digital? Technology is a double-edged sword for hustlers. On one hand, it creates new opportunities, but with a lag. Hustlers are often among the last to benefit from new technology, which destroys old hustles but create new ones. A good example is computers. They might stop us from having to hire typists, but hustlers repair computers and sell accessories like cases and flash drives. VVTi and EFI might have killed the carburettor, but hustlers still need to sell mats when it&rsquo;s raining, paint cars and sell air fresheners. Joseph Schumpeter probably had hustlers in mind when he coined the term &lsquo;creative destruction&rsquo;. New ideas espoused by technology destroy old hustles but create new opportunities. That&rsquo;s why despite predicting the end of hustling, it persists, with every generation boasting of the ingeniousness of its hustlers. Human behaviour means that we shall never be perfect or do things as expected. This means inefficiencies will remain for hustlers to exploit. What we can&rsquo;t dispute is that as technology advances, so do hustlers. The illiterate hustler of yesteryears has been replaced by a more enlightened hustler who&rsquo;s tech survey, able to see patterns and trends, and make money from them. I&rsquo;m sure hustlers already know how they&rsquo;ll make money from the standard gauge railway. One of the biggest headaches for law enforcers, particularly when it comes to white collar crime, is the self-taught hustler who learns things that sophisticated men and women never expect him or her to. The reality of life demands that hustlers keep learning, keep abreast of technology to forestall extinction. The human species has done that since the dawn of civilisation. Relax hustlers, technology or no technology, your future is bright. For as long as we can&rsquo;t automate everything, human and market perfection remain an illusion, and your position in society is guaranteed.