&nbsp; President Uhuru Kenyatta flanked by his supporters after being cleared to defend his seat by the electoral agency. [Photo by Beverlyne Musili, Standard] President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday addressed a series of rallies in Nairobi calling on voters to elect Jubilee Party candidates in the city. Accompanied by his deputy William Ruto, President Kenyatta paraded Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko and asked supporters to turn out in large numbers to ensure Jubilee wrests the city&rsquo;s governorship from ODM&rsquo;s Evans Kidero. Uhuru and Mr Ruto made several stopovers in Nairobi&rsquo;s Eastlands where they addressed hundreds of Jubilee enthusiasts, and pleaded for their support in the August 8 General Election. The President called for peaceful campaigns devoid of insults and mudslinging to allow the election of leaders without coercion. &ldquo;I have said I will not insult anyone during the campaigns and I expect our opponents to also engage in issue-based campaigns. Wakenya wapatiwe nafasi ya kuchagua viongozi wao. Kila mtu atafute kura kwa heshima (Kenyans should be given chance to decide their next leaders. Let people hunt for votes with decorum),&rdquo; said Uhuru at City Stadium stopover. ALSO READ: Talking to the world: The meaning of Uhuru's address at G7 summit The whirlwind tour, which was supposed to start at 10am, however, delayed and commenced at 1pm in Doonholm, forcing the leaders to skip some of the places&nbsp; they were scheduled to tour. The duo also took the opportunity to pitch for Jubilee candidates in Nairobi particularly Senator Mike Sonko who has been nominated by the party to vie for the governor&rsquo;s seat. Uhuru and Ruto expressed confidence that Jubilee will wrest Nairobi County from Dr Kidero. &ldquo;We urge Nairobi residents to support Jubilee in the county as we are fronting candidates who have a deep understanding of Nairobi&rsquo;s problems,&rdquo; said Uhuru. The President who was supposed to be at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre at 2.15pm to present his nomination papers was late by more than an hour. He made it by 3.30pm. The long wait, however, did not dampen the spirit of the supporters as they displayed their joy and danced to Jubilee campaign song &ldquo;Uhuru-Ruto tano tena...ndani ndani ndani at the State House&rdquo; by Ben Githae. The Jubilee leaders cited their development projects as the justification for their second term in office. ALSO READ: Presidential aspirant arrested over &lsquo;suicide bid&rsquo; at agency offices The President promised free education from primary to secondary, saying his administration had already allocated Sh5 billion for that. &ldquo;With the grace of the Lord, as from next year, my administration shall offer free education from primary to secondary school. Our mandate is to deliver what we promised Kenyans, as is in the case of free maternity and other infrastructure projects,&rdquo; the President said. Ruto claimed that the Opposition had sensed defeat and some of its principals were already planning fallback plans. Jubilee leaders said Ford-K leader Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula and Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto&rsquo;s decision to defend their Senate and governor seats was because they do not believe NASA flag bearer Raila Odinga will win come August. &ldquo;Even the Opposition leaders are aware we will beat them in the elections,&rdquo; Ruto said.&nbsp;