The attacks witnessed in Mandera earlier in the week should put the country&rsquo;s security forces on high alert. Traditionally, terrorist up the ante during the Holy Month of Ramadhan, which in the past, has seen us witness some of the most gruesome attacks. On Wednesday, at least five police officers were killed after a vehicle they were traveling in was hit by an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) in Simo area, Arabia, Mandera County. The officers were part of Governor Ali Ibrahim Roba&rsquo;s security team and were escorting him for a political rally in Lafey when the incident happened. From this alone, it is clear that more must be done to make the region less vulnerable to attacks. This will require a multi-pronged approach. For instance, new roads will need to be cut out through inaccessible areas in the north. Communication will also have to be enhanced to enable our hardworking security forces on patrol to communicate more easily with their base stations in case there is need. Too many areas in Mandera County are unpoliced and unmanned, not because of an unwillingness to serve by our forces, but due to the simple reason of the inaccessibility of these places. A lack of basic infrastructure such as roads and electricity has conspired to make these regions lawless. Criminals and terror groups take advantage of this to pour more misery on our people. Essentially administration policemen, tasked with manning our border posts, all too often walk into war ill equipped. ALSO READ: Three police officers killed by IED in Garissa It should, however, not be lost on us that the security forces are doing their best, and are significantly reducing the number of terror-related attacks countrywide. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Interior must work towards eliminating these attacks. The war on terror is global. And no nation can go into this war alone. Our security forces should maintain and strengthen their regional and global partnerships in their quest to enhance security.