Jubilee Party has cast its net far and wide to craft a formidable campaign team for its presidential candidate, Uhuru Kenyatta. Party functionaries, regional pointmen, trusted aides and close relatives are playing different roles in President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s re-election campaign. Top party officials are leading operations from the party&rsquo;s headquarters at Jubilee House in Pangani, Nairobi. But besides the party structures, the presidential campaign is being directed by trusted aides in his administration. According to sources, key politicians have been assigned the role of regional pointmen and women to campaign for the party at the grass roots in teams that will incorporate nominees for elective seats in last month&rsquo;s primaries. Uhuru fundraiser ALSO READ: DP William Ruto tours &lsquo;elders zone&rsquo; Sources explained a fundraiser for Jubilee&rsquo;s presidential candidate had been planned for June 2 but had been postponed because of Uhuru&rsquo;s schedule. The Jubilee presidential campaign team is being spearheaded by a four-member team comprising Raphael Tuju, David Murathe, Winnie Guchu and Alfred Gitonga. Sources familiar with the operations of the team said it was part of the Jubilee National Executive Committee (NEC). Other NEC members include Deputy President William Ruto, Majority Leader Aden Duale and nominated senator Beatrice Elachi. Mr Tuju, a former Rarieda MP and Cabinet minister is Jubilee&rsquo;s secretariat head. Uhuru appointed him to replace Veronica Maina, who had been working as secretary general in acting capacity. She is now Jubilee&rsquo;s vice chairperson. Other people expected to play a key role in Uhuru&rsquo;s campaigns are his nephew, Jomo Gecaga, who is his personal assistant, Solicitor General Njee Muturi, his young brother Muhoho Kenyatta, and his chief of staff Joseph Kinyua. ALSO READ: DP William Ruto tours &lsquo;elders zone&rsquo; Others are former Energy Cabinet Secretary (CS) Davis Chirchir, Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s&nbsp; aide Farouk Kibet, JP&rsquo;s National Steering Committee member Joseph Maathai and a host of&nbsp; powerful businessmen tasked with resource mobilisation. Tech-savvy teams The party has also recruited tech-savvy teams that include Britons, Americans and Kenyans who are working under Tuju at the party&rsquo;s secretariat in Pangani. The party is also keen to retain support from aspirants who lost in last month&rsquo;s primaries by roping them into its campaign team. &ldquo;We are not dropping those who lost in the nominations. We are accommodating them because they will add value to our campaigns. At the counties, we have the county coordinating committees to which we are adding more people,&rdquo; Tuju told The Standard. Murathe, a former Gatanga MP, was instrumental in overseeing the merger of The National Alliance (TNA) and Ruto-led United Republican Party (URP). Before his appointment as vice chairman of the Jubilee Alliance Party, Murathe was Uhuru&rsquo;s aide and is known for his political mobilisation skills. ALSO READ: Kiraitu Murungi, Peter Munya in running mate game plan Another key figure in the President&rsquo;s re-election bid is former TNA executive director and Judicial Service Commission (JSC) member Winnie Guchu. She is Jubilee&rsquo;s executive director. The party has also identified people to spearhead its campaigns in all the regions. In Masaailand, Uhuru will be counting on Narok Governor Samuel Tunai, and MPs Moses Sakuda (Kajiado North) and Katoo Ole Metito (Kajiado South). Joyce Laboso, John Munyes, Soipan Tuya, Joyce Emanikor and Davis Sankok finish the list of campaign leaders in the larger Rift Valley. Former Commission for Implementation of the Constitution (CIC) Charles Nyachae, Albert Nyaundi, Joseph Kiangoi, Walter Nyambati, Jimmy Angwenyi, and Mathias Robi are leading Jubilee campaigns in Nyanza. Regional heads Meru Senator and gubernatorial candidate Kiraitu Murungi, Rachael Nyamai, Regina Ndambuki, Victor Munyaka, Kithure Kindiki, Kalembe Ndile, Joe Mutambo and John Muchiri are Uhuru&rsquo;s key people in Eastern. Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya, Gideon Mung&#39;aro, Zainabu Chidzuga, Danson Mungatana, Suleiman Shabhal and Naomi Shaban will spearhead Jubilee campaigns in the Coast region. ALSO READ: Bitter Jubilee wars that sent Joash Maangi back to ODM Bungoma Governor Kenneth Lusaka and MPs Ben Washiali, Mary Emase and Charles Gimose are the point people in Western. Duale, Mohamed Mohamud, Abbas Sheikh and Hassan Yussuf are tasked with ensuring voters in North Eastern vote for Uhuru. Murang&rsquo;a Senator Kembi Gitura and MPs Esther Murugi, Alice Ng&rsquo;ang&rsquo;a, Sabina Chege, Njogu Barua will coordinate Uhuru campaigns in Central region. Senator Mike Sonko, who bagged the gubernatorial ticket, will be assisted by Rachel Shebesh, Maina Kamanda, Beatrice Elachi and Johnson Sakaja to deliver Nairobi to Jubilee. Sources told The Standard Jubilee had zoned the country into perceived strongholds and swing counties. According to the strategy, Jubilee has classified 17 counties in Central, Rift Valley and Upper Eastern as its strongholds. Sources said Jubilee was out to use massive party resources to mobilise voters to turn out in big numbers to vote in the General Election. Uhuru and Ruto will lead high octane campaigns across the country after presenting nomination papers to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) on May 28. ALSO READ: Bitter Jubilee wars that sent Joash Maangi back to ODM