Baringo Senator Gideon Moi has condemned the continued bandit attacks in parts of the county despite an ongoing security operation in the region. Gideon said the Government must come clean on whether there was an operation in Baringo given the attacks have continued unabated despite the presence of police backed by Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) personnel. &quot;The Government should be honest with the people of Baringo about whether there is an operation or just a public relations gimmick. Why are criminal elements so bold to attack, kill and steal livestock if there is really an operation?&quot; he wondered. The senator was reacting to the latest round of attacks in the county where two people were killed and more than 600 animals stolen by suspected bandits in Yattia, Baringo North, and Lomaiwe in Baringo South at the weekend. The daring bandits continued with their raids yesterday, resulting in an exchange of fire with security officers in Seretion village in Baringo North. Gideon said the security agencies in Baringo owed residents an explanation on why the attacks continued despite their presence. ALSO READ: 180,000 police officers to be trained ahead of August election &quot;We cannot understand why the attacks continue when we have well-equipped officers on the ground, unless they are in the region for a different mission besides flushing out criminals,&quot; he said. While deploying KDF in March, President Uhuru Kenyatta said their presence would help police restore law and order. &quot;Those people with illegal arms have continued to threaten the lives of Kenyans and should know they are enemies of the State and, therefore, shall be treated as such. The deployment of KDF will further assist in the disarmament and surrender of illegally held arms,&quot; the President said. Apart from Baringo, the officers were also sent to parts of Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot and Laikipia counties. Meanwhile, residents in volatile parts of Baringo North and South want the Government to assure them of their safety amid numerous attacks that has left several people dead, property lost and schools closed. The locals said despite the presence of security personnel in the county, they were still being attacked by bandits suspected to be from the Pokot community. Led by Kipruto Kimosop, the locals said they had been raising the issue of insecurity in the area for decades. ALSO READ: 180,000 police officers to be trained ahead of August election The residents were speaking after a peaceful demonstration in Mochongoi. &nbsp;