&nbsp; NASA Co-Principal Sen. Moses Wetangula is cleared by IEBC Returning Officer Bungoma Mrs Bilha Kiptugen to vie for Bungoma Senate. He was accompanied by Co- Principal and Wiper Leader Hon Kalonzo Musyoka. The Leaders held a roadshow in Bungoma town and later addressed rally at Posta Grounds Bungoma. Senate and MCA candidates were cleared by the electoral commission for the second day as scores of others were turned away for failure to fulfill requirements. Among those presented with nomination certificates yesterday were senators Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula (Bungoma), James Orengo (Siaya) and Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet) who are defending their seats as well as Nakuru County Assembly Speaker Susan Kihika who is vying for Nakuru Senate seat. Addressing a rally in Bungoma town, Kalonzo Musyoka who had accompanied Wetang&rsquo;ula urged ODM and ANC senatorial candidates to step down for his NASA co-principal. Face hitches Mombasa senatorial aspirants faced documentation hitches as they rushed to beat the deadline to present their papers for verification before the Independent Electoral and Boundary Commission IEBC yesterday. ALSO READ: IEBC owes it to nation to deliver fair polls The 11 aspirants yesterday appeared before the county returning officer Nancy Kariuki Wanjiku at the Government Training Institute GTI to have their certificate verified and declared eligible to run. However, some were greeted with shock after they were informed of anomalies in their documents. The aspirants were turned away to correct the errors before close of business or risk being locked out. Among the documents include self-declaratory form, Electoral Code of Conduct, Form 19 duly signed, proof one is registered in Mombasa and be a fully nominated member of a political party. Some of the aspirants who were cleared to run is Mombasa-based musician Stephen Mure Yaa of Maendeleo Chap Chap (CCM). Stressful process It was however a stressful process for the only female Senate aspirant Florence Koome of The Vibrant Party. ALSO READ: Aukot, Dida get go-ahead as agency turns Nyaga away Koome&rsquo;s nomination certificate had no signature from the party leader Awiti Bolo and lacked a rubber stamp from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission EACC. Former deputy gubernatorial aspirant Onesmus Abel Chome vying on Shirikisho Party of Kenya said that the process was a success despite of few documentation issues. And five candidates were given green light by IEBC to contest Machakos senatorial seat. The electoral body cleared Winfred Mutua (Jubilee), Jackson Kala (Wiper), Boniface Kabaka (Chama Cha Uzalendo), Mutua Katuku (People&rsquo;s Trust Party) and Carlos Kioko (Maendeleo Chap Chap). Johnstone Muthama exited the local political scene after he acrimoniously fell out with Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka over what he termed as move by the party to promote &lsquo;undemocratic principles.&rsquo; Taita-Taveta County Woman Representative Joyce Wanjala Lay was also cleared. Immediately after the Jubilee party legislator was cleared by the IEBC County Returning Officer Festus Mucheke at Mwatate DANIDA Hall, she and her supporters burst into song and dance. ALSO READ: IEBC owes it to nation to deliver fair polls Ms Lay, who is also the former ODM legislator, joined other women and religious leaders at Wundanyi Dawson Mwanyumba stadium where special prayers were conducted for peaceful elections. Ford Kenya candidate Cleopus Maghanga Ngeti and an independent candidate Enock Mwachala, who is also a former senior assistant principal investigations officer, were yet to be cleared at the time of going to the Press. In Homa Bay, Senator Moses Kajwang&rsquo; was cleared to defend his seat. &ldquo;I thank the IEBC for approving my candidature. I appeal to them to ensure the will of the people is upheld in the August election&rdquo; said Mr Kajwang&rsquo;. Former Rangwe MP Shem Ochuodho was also cleared to vie for Homa Bay senatorial seat as an independent. In Kirinyaga, senatorial independent candidate Charles Kibiru was cleared and vowed to unite all local political leaders if he wins on August 8. Dishon Kirima of the Narc Kenya, who is also vying for the same seat, was the first to be cleared by the IEBC yesterday. Senate Deputy Speaker Kembi Gitura downplayed claims that Murang&rsquo;a residents would adopt six-piece voting. ALSO READ: Aukot, Dida get go-ahead as agency turns Nyaga away Speaking after he was cleared by IEBC to run as an independent candidate, Kembi said the locals will elect their representatives depending on experience. &ldquo;The six piece suit election will not happen in Murang&rsquo;a as the electorate forced candidates to shift after the chaotic Jubilee nominations where they were rigged,&rdquo; said Kembi. Nyandarua senatorial aspirant on a Jubilee Party ticket Mwangi Githiomi was yesterday cleared by the IEBC to contest for the seat currently being held by Muriuki Karue. Fight it out Mr Githiomi will fight it out with John Methu, who will be vying on a Maendeleo Chap Chap ticket. Incumbent Senator Muriuki Karue will not be defending the seat since he shifted his interested to contests for the county&rsquo;s governorship but lost in the JP primaries to former Secretary to the Cabinet Francis Kimemia. in Nakuru, Ms Kihika was the third candidate among the four who were cleared by the IEBC for senatorial position. She was escorted by MPs David Gikaria (Nakuru East), Samuel Arama (Nakuru West), Moses Cheboi (Kuresoi North) and Oscar Sudi (Kapseret) alongside other leaders nominated on Jubilee ticket. Jacob Mengich of Mazingira Party and Kenneth Odongo of Agano were expected to submit their papers in the afternoon. ALSO READ: Presidential aspirant arrested over &lsquo;suicide bid&rsquo; at agency offices IEBC has cleared six aspirants to run for the Kakamega senatorial seat. Seth Panyako (ODM), Mukabwa Alex (Maendeleo Party) and Mwonyonyo Carolyne Indasi (NLP) were cleared on Sunday. Yesterday, IEBC cleared Mahiakalo MCA Cleophas Malala (ANC), Sammy Aina Washiko (Ford Kenya) and Martin Andati (Maendeleo Democratic Party). Former Cabinet Minister Sam Ongeri and chairman of the defunct Constitution Commission Charles Nyachae were also cleared yesterday to vie for Kisii Senate seat. The two are among the 11 candidates who will be battling it out for seat. Speaking yesterday after receiving his approval certificate, Nyachae called on his opponents to respect the will of the people. &ldquo;We are determined and focused on winning the senate seat and all other political seats in Kisii,&rdquo; he said. Prof Ongeri, who presented his papers yesterday afternoon, also called on the electoral body to carry out free and fair election. Youth aspirant and former Kisii County Government Economist Kennedy Momanyi of Labour Party of Kenya (LPK) also presented his papers. Maseno University lecturer Richard Atemba of Kenya National Congress was the first person to be cleared yesterday morning. Former South Mugirango Omingo Magara of People&rsquo;s Democratic Party, after being cleared, vowed to send home the old guard. Nyando MP Fred Outa (ODM), Millicent Abudho (Ford Kenya), Ochola Ogoda (independent) and Jubilee party&rsquo;s Winston Ayoki were cleared to vie for Kisumu senatorial seat. [Nathan Ochunge, Renson Mnyamwezi, James Omoro, Erastus Mulwa, Munene Kamau, Joackim Bwana, Boniface Gikandi, James Munyeki, Eric Abuga, Harold Odhiambo and Ken Gichuhi]