A backlash from critics, advice from family and allies of his younger brother Raila Odinga forced Nominated MP Oburu Oginga to back down from his quest to become a member of the East African Legislative Assembly. The Standard&nbsp;has reliably learnt that some strategists involved in Raila&rsquo;s presidential campaign advised the family to prevail upon Oburu to withdraw the application following complaints the appointments could impact negatively on the Opposition leader&rsquo;s campaign. The family was concerned Jubilee propagandists had picked Oburu&#39;s application to EALA as well as that of Kennedy Musyoka, Kalonzo Musyoka&#39;s son, to portray the Opposition leaders as corrupt and agents of nepotism. Musyoka&rsquo;s son had also been proposed as one of the Wiper Party&rsquo;s representatives to the regional assembly. Reports that Oburu Kennedy were headed to the Arusha-based assembly sparked protests in online platforms with some critics saying Oburu was getting the seat because he was Raila&#39;s brother. Perhaps in reaction to the criticism, Oburu, at a press conference in Mombasa, declared he would not seek any elective seat in the August polls and hinted at retirement after 39 years in politics. ALSO READ: Opinion: Raise quality of voter engagement on issues The nominated MP said he would instead campaign for Raila in Western and Nyanza. The lawmaker said he withdrew his candidature after consulting his family but defended his application, saying he was qualified to hold the post. Oburu lost Bondo ODM primaries to incumbent Gideon Ochanda, who garnered 28,446 votes against the 4,000. He has since conceded defeat after earlier rejecting the results. The MP said he was a self-made politician and dismissed claims he was a beneficiary of his younger brother, Raila&rsquo;s political influence in Luo Nyanza. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m qualified and entitled to be nominated for the EALA post not because I&rsquo;m Raila&rsquo;s brother. But three days ago, I withdrew my candidature after consultation with my family,&rdquo; said Oburu, who was first elected as a civic leader in 1974. He dismissed reports that he was to be Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga&rsquo;s running mate, saying his task now was to rally huge voter turnout in Western and Nyanza for Raila. ALSO READ: Opinion: Done with the nominations, now tell Kenyans what you stand for &ldquo;I cannot give you a definite date but after the August 8 polls, I will make the decision on my retirement,&rdquo; said Oburu adding that his candidature for EALA came at a wrong time. He at the same time launched a scathing attack against Jubilee leaders and Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo, alleging that they were behind political attacks against him. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know why Midiwo is angry with me. He tried to be a kingmaker in Nyanza during the ODM nominations which cost him the nomination. His allegation that I collected money from governors to bring down popular candidates in Nyanza are serious,&rdquo; said Oburu. He also alleged Jubilee operatives had invented propaganda against the Odinga family in a bid to hurt the former premier&rsquo;s presidential bid. Oburu said Jubilee&rsquo;s schemes were hurting the image of even family members who were not interested in politics. &ldquo;Raila being my brother is just a biological accident. It cannot be used to bring down other members of the Odinga family who have capacity to serve their country. &ldquo;We know his (Raila) candidature is a big threat to Jubilee but it is not an excuse for attacks against his family,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: Opinion: Raise quality of voter engagement on issues Oburu linked Majority Leader Aden Duale to attacks against his family. &ldquo;Duale was a nobody. It is Raila who made him into somebody. He should be thankful and respect us if he wants us to respect him,&rdquo; he said. On Sunday, Duale said he would mobilise MPs to reject Oburu&rsquo;s candidature, saying he did not deserve the slot in the EALA Parliament. The Standard&nbsp;learnt from a senior politician close to the Oginga family that it was decided Oburu&rsquo;s&nbsp; quest for EALA be withdrawn because it would give Jubilee unnecessary fodder for its campaigns. This was the second time Oburu was attracting criticism from across the country in a span of two weeks. When he lost the Bondo parliamentary nominations, a Returning Officer drove from Bondo to Kisumu to belatedly declare him the winner, a decision that sparked uproar and forced the party&rsquo;s National Elections to uphold&nbsp; Mr Ochanda&rsquo;s win. It also emerged that although the Odinga family and Raila campaigners felt Oburu, just like any other family member had the right to seek any political post, his political moves and interests in political positions were being politicised to slow the NASA presidential campaigns. Oburu&rsquo;s anger at the press conference in Mombasa where he announced the withdrawal of his candidature for the EALA seat suggested he may have been coerced to drop his ambitions. ALSO READ: Governor Jackson Mandago's chief campaigners attacked &ldquo;Why do people link my leadership ambitions with Raila? Are these people aware that I was in politics long before Raila?&rdquo; he posed. &nbsp;