President Uhuru Kenyatta took Jubilee campaigns to Kilifi and Kwale, he urged the residents to re-elect him based on his development record, citing improved electricity connections, land resettlement, refurbished roads and protection of mining resources. However, Kilifi residents greeted Jubilee leaders with discontent over the shortage of low cost maize flour, as residents chanted &ldquo;unga!&rdquo; unga!&rdquo; As the shouting mounted Mung&rsquo;aro said &ldquo;if unga has not reached here let me end my speech but the government will intervene.&rdquo; When Uhuru rose to speak, he did not discuss the matter. He cited the tarmacking of the Kaloleni-Mavueni road and connection of 105,000 homes to electricity in Kilifi, up from 48,000 in 2013. &ldquo;Those questioning our track record should tell us what they did when they were in Government,&rdquo; said Uhuru, adding that his administration has given title deeds to squatters and settled the landless in Coast. ALSO READ: Uhuru lays foundation for Africa&rsquo;s tallest building in Nairobi He accused the Opposition of inciting residents against Jubilee administration&rsquo;s gains in power connection, road and other developments. &ldquo;We want to unite our people through development, job creation and attracting foreign investment but our opponents are spreading hatred and propaganda,&rdquo; said Uhuru in Kilifi. In Kwale, the President and his deputy, William Ruto, assured the interests of the locals would be taken care of in mining. &ldquo;Minerals will not be taken from Kwale County without the due process being followed and without taking into consideration the interest of the people,&rdquo; said Ruto. He also steered clear of the unga debate and instead criticised the Opposition and local Governor Amason Kingi. President Kenyatta cautioned a former minister vying for the Kwale governorship not to lie to the people about land and mineral issues in the county. The Head of State said Chirau Mwakwere should be the last person to pretend that he cares about the interest of locals in regard to land and minerals. ALSO READ: Jubilee in trouble with its presiding officers and clerks &nbsp;Signed away The President, who spoke at Lunga Lunga near the Kenya Tanzania border, said it was Mr Mwakwere who signed away the rights of the people when he was the minister in charge of environment. He said Mwakwere should respect himself and stop making unfounded claims about the Jubilee leadership. &ldquo;He has been going round and claiming that Salim Mvurya (Kwale Governor) joined Jubilee to steal the resources of Kwale people,&rdquo; said the President. Uhuru claimed Jubilee &ldquo;rescued&rdquo; Mwakwere after he lost the 2013 Kwale senatorial race by appointing him Kenya&rsquo;s top diplomat in Tanzania. Kenya National Union of Teachers Chairman Mudzo Nzili spoke at the rally and cautioned the Opposition against creating false narratives about the education sector. ALSO READ: President Uhuru to ride in first SGR wagon next week