May 8, marks the start of a critical week for political parties as their tribunals rush to resolve disputes arising from the nominations. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) is also poised for a busy week as politicians and parties flock to register their symbols. IEBC will be approving symbols for political parties and independent candidates. Our schedule remains the same, nothing has changed,&quot; said Ezra Chiloba, the commission&#39;s chief executive officer. The approvals might present a hectic time for politicians contesting the outcome of the just-ended party primaries and those wishing to run as independents. This week will also witness heightened political activity as key parties stage rallies across the country. Jubilee Party is set hold a political rally in Kajiado before Thursday while the National Super Alliance (NASA) will be in Nakuru at the weekend ALSO READ: Waititu: I will fight for unity if elected The political parties&#39; appeals tribunals and Political Parties Disputes Tribunal were set to finish hearing appeals and making rulings. LOSE APPEALS Those who lose their appeals and hope to vie as independent candidates have until the end of May 8 to be cleared by the Registrar of Political Parties and IEBC. They will join another 4,000 who have been cleared to run as independents. Independent candidates have until Wednesday to submit their symbols, letters of intent to vie and clearance from Registrar of Political Parties Lucy Ndung&#39;u to IEBC. Mr Chiloba said the commission would on Wednesday and Thursday transmit copies of specimen signatures of party signatories and candidates&#39; symbols to returning officers. The gazetting of names and symbols of independent candidates will be done on May 13 while verification of lists of presidential candidates&#39; supporters is set for May 18 up to May 22. ALSO READ: Opinion: Raise quality of voter engagement on issues Chiloba also said collection of nomination papers and the code of conduct will be done from May 10 to May 31. &nbsp;