Last Saturday, history was made once again at the famous Kasarani Sports Complex Gymnasium. The Kenya Alliance of Independent Candidates (KAIC) was spectacularly born and with it the tectonic plates of the Kenyan political landscape shifted. The birth of KAIC guarantees the people their democratic right and the right to expression with its promise to &ldquo;Let the People Decide&rdquo;. On Saturday, Kenyans were liberated from the tyranny of political party nominations. Political party nominations are often &ldquo;sold&rdquo; to members with high promise of &ldquo;free and fair&rdquo;, &ldquo;level playing field&rdquo; and other such tantalising epithets to rope in the critical mass. With the consistency of the night following day, these nominations end up in shambles delivering nothing save for disenfranchisement and resentment and the inevitable political fallout. The closure of party-hopping whilst originally fought by many is now proving to be a blessing in disguise. In the past, popular politicians falling out from rigged nominations would be forced into parties they are not ideologically aligned with in order to find a vehicle to carry them to the ballot. And by winning the seat these candidates then give those parties bargaining positions in Parliament they have neither earned nor deserve. The independent candidates window is a Godsend in this context; voters have the opportunity to vote with their conscience as indeed would independent members in the House. Despite its independence, KAIC is unequivocal in its support for the candidature and Presidency of Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto. That choice is clear and unshakeable. Independent Candidates will therefore compete on a level playing field for all positions from MCA, MP, Womens&rsquo; Representative, Senator and Governor in nearly all the 47 counties. Presently there are upwards of 4,800 registered Independent candidates in the country. Largest party ALSO READ: Top ODM leaders fail to agree on candidates Were KAIC a political party it would be the largest party in Kenya. In a majority of counties there are more than one independent candidate competing with other parties for each of the five political seats in a ratio typically of 3:1. These figures whichever way you wish to slice the political cake, cannot be ignored. Assuming that of the 4,800 independents, half are in support of UhuRuto, that makes it 2,400. Which is also 133 per cent more than the registered Jubilee candidates. Let us assume (hypothetically speaking of course) that these candidates have zero followers. But what they do have is families and in our African context extended families, all of whom these candidates have a direct influence over. Assume each candidate conservatively influences 20 family members directly. That would be 48,000 votes. When you consider that the 50+1 threshold was crossed in 2013 with a mere 8,600 odd votes, the value of KAIC comes to life. When you factor in extended families and supporters the numbers become truly staggering; the stuff all politicians&rsquo; dreams are made of. Combine this again with the mood on the ground to &ldquo;elect people versus parties&rdquo; and this will undoubtedly usher in a refreshing change on the leadership landscape and above all, set a new precedence for governance against the historical backdrop of traditional political party politics. The independent model could prove to be the most powerful tool for achieving what has eluded Kenyans since Uhuru in 1963... the de-ethnicisation of our parochial politics. The old formulas of ethnic arithmetic are rapidly losing flavour with an increasingly integrated society more interested in delivery of services and a better life for themselves and their families than with where there leaders comes from. Leaders are now free to stand and be chosen without the shackles of &ldquo;the party line&rdquo;. KAIC provides the Kenyan voters with an honest and credible choice while at the same time, providing the member candidates a platform to engage all stakeholders including IEBC and NCIC and indeed the government on the elective processes. KAIC has created the interface for independent candidates to work through to ensure a level playing field with robust parameters that will guarantee a free and fair election come August with zero possibility of a repeat performance of the nomination fiasco. ALSO READ: Mudavadi tells independent candidates to keep off KAIC salutes all those who have chosen to walk the road less travelled. The brave and fearless warriors of democracy; the independence of mind and spirit; and the commitment to democracy. By offering yourselves as candidates, you are providing the people with the opportunity to decide. Mr Gethenji is MP, Tetu Constituency and Secretary General of the Kenya Association of Independent Candidates&nbsp;