Sorry I&rsquo;m a little late; I have driven all the way from Nanyuki.&rdquo; When I ask Wangui Muraguri why she didn&rsquo;t just reschedule our interview after making a three-hour trip, she says she always does her best to keep her word &ndash; it&rsquo;s what has kept her in business after all. Wangui exudes confidence and just by looking at her, it&rsquo;s easy to see how at 30, she has managed to make a success of her company, Superior Concierge. She is a lifestyle manager, and as we settle down, she gets talking about what this means. What is Superior Concierge all about? We say that we are a lifestyle management company. It basically means that we take care of all our clients&rsquo; needs &ndash; as long as it is legal. People nowadays are so busy that getting a minute to run an errand can be hard. This is where we come in. We can do anything for you &ndash; drycleaning, organising for an event or paying your insurance. Some clients move into the country and are looking for schools, housing, they want someone to come in and instal pay-TV in their new house ... all that stuff, that&rsquo;s what we take care of. What inspired you to start the business? While I was studying at JKUAT (Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology), I was hired by a financial services company as an intern, and then I got into customer service within the same firm. I was there for about seven years. I never thought I was a people-person &ndash; I did finance in school and so I considered myself a numbers person. But then I joined customer service and started engaging with people and hearing about their needs. I was talking to people who were doing amazing things out there, and I was like, &lsquo;What am I doing in this office&rsquo;? I saw a gap in the market where people could outsource personal tasks, so in 2011, I registered Superior Concierge. That same year, however, I got a bigger role at work, so I wasn&rsquo;t able to do the business on the side. I worked for two more years. I woke up one day in 2013 and resigned. I knew that for as long as I had security in employment, I wouldn&rsquo;t get this thing going. What did people say about your decision? My bosses tried to offer me other options, but I said this is what I want to do. My mum is the most supportive person on earth. She is one of those people you tell &lsquo;Mum, I am going in this direction&rsquo;, and she says, &lsquo;I am right there with you&rsquo;. My dad had a lot of questions, like how I was going to pay my bills, did I have a plan and all that. I told him to have faith in me. I was very determined to do this. I had come up with different strategies and I knew they would work with time. Also, I had a lot of support. You must have support. You can&rsquo;t do this alone. I farmed on the side to keep things going. Again, my mum supported me in this. Slowly, the clients started coming in as I explored more ways to get the company&rsquo;s name out there. How did you raise the capital to get started? I had my savings as I had worked for seven years. But I didn&rsquo;t need much to start except for a website, which I built myself after watching YouTube tutorials, and brochures to advertise my services. I have, however, asked around about financing, and most institutions tell me they don&rsquo;t fund start-ups &ndash; especially not those in the service industry as we don&rsquo;t offer anything quantifiable. If I didn&rsquo;t have my savings, I would have found another way to do this. I was very determined and I had plan A, B, C and D. I would have figured something out. As soon as I got my first job, I started paying bills. I started working when I was 19 and that discipline has really helped me. Initially, I was angry at my dad for making me pay bills, but right now, I appreciate it. It made me gain a sense of responsibility. Now I know I can&rsquo;t go out every Friday night because I understand that money is needed elsewhere. How do you gain the trust of your clients? I have five employees. I have done background checks on them and have their certificates of good conduct. I have their IDs, which I have verified. I ensure that the people I am working with are trustworthy. On the clients&rsquo; side, we give them a confidentiality statement saying that in case of anything, if it is our fault, we&rsquo;ll cover it. How do clients get to know about you? Word of mouth. That has helped a lot. I have also listed the business on expats.com, I have a Facebook page and a website. I also gave out brochures to property management companies to place in apartments they manage. The other day, we did an analysis and found that 40 per cent of my clients found me on Facebook. Nowadays, everything is online. Social media is making noise and it is important to have an online platform. Any unusual requests? Yes! I have had to tell a client that I can&rsquo;t help them because they are looking to procure sexual services. Someone else wanted me to get them drugs. The most important thing I tell my clients is that anything you ask for has to be legal. And if you want anything to be done for you, it has to be between 9am and 5pm, and will be done the following day. My customer service background has taught me how to be stern but friendly. How do you ensure that you meet your clients&rsquo; needs? I have connections with other businesses. For example, let&rsquo;s say a client wants me to deliver flowers to his wife; I have a florist who I get in touch with. However, if we can&rsquo;t find something &ndash; and, believe me, we look for things everywhere &ndash; we let the client know in advance. How do you charge for your services? I charge based on the time it&rsquo;s going to take to do a particular task and also distance. Also, you have to accommodate miscellaneous charges that might arise. There are no fixed charges &ndash; it could be anywhere from Sh500 to Sh5,000 per task. What lessons have you learnt in the three years you&rsquo;ve been in business? The biggest lesson I have learnt is patience. Sometimes a client will ask you to do something and in the middle of doing it, they change their mind. I have also had to be patient with suppliers; they can kill you. You tell them, for example, that you need something by 1pm, and when you call them at 12:30, they don&rsquo;t pick your calls. You have to try to get the best possible people you can to avoid these situations. I have also had to learn to be patient with myself. I am trying very hard but I am still impatient. Have you reached a place where you feel this is a successful business? I am very tough on myself, so I don&rsquo;t think that I am there yet. I don&rsquo;t think I will ever get to a point where I will be satisfied. Yes, the business pays the bills. But let me be honest, it took me seven months to get my first client. How will you handle copycat businesses? That will be a challenge, but you have to find ways to differentiate yourself and stand out. Competition is healthy and we are going to have to look for ways to keep evolving. Maybe we will create an app. You never know.