Wiper Democratic Movement is plotting a clean sweep of all elective positions in Ukambani and nearby regions during the August 8 elections. The party led by Kalonzo Musyoka, the National Super Alliance (NASA) presidential running mate, is planning an onslaught on independent candidates and aspirants from other parties in its strongholds. Saturday, Kalonzo met Wiper nominees from Kitui County in Nairobi and vowed to ensure his party and the Opposition alliance gets maximum support from the region. &ldquo;If we are not careful, NASA can get all the votes for President and Deputy President, but all other seats end up being taken by independent candidates. It will be very embarrassing and I won&rsquo;t allow that in Ukambani,&rdquo; he said. He said he will soon meet Wiper candidates for various seats from Machakos and Makueni counties too, as his outfit gears up to vanquish opposition from parties such as Governor Alfred Mutua&rsquo;s Maendeleo Chap Chap and the ruling Jubilee Party. &ldquo;NASA requires everybody&rsquo;s vote, but I would not want to be the Deputy President of Kenya who has no governor, senator, MP or MCA from his home and party,&rdquo; said Kalonzo. ALSO READ: Group wants Kajiado West Jubilee nominee academic papers probed Kitui Senator David Musila, a former Kalonzo&rsquo;s key ally, is among the leaders in Ukambani vying as as independents. Musila, who is running for governor, resigned from Wiper after he was floored by Governor Julius Malombe in the primaries. In 2013 elections, Kalonzo&rsquo;s party lost four out of the eight National Assembly seats in Machakos County and Wiper candidate Philip Kaloki came second to Kivutha Kibwana who was elected Makueni Governor on a Muungano Party ticket. In Kalonzo&rsquo;s home county of Kitui, Rachel Nyamai defied the Wiper wave to win the Kitui South parliamentary seat. Nyamai has since led a mass exodus of MPs from the region to Jubilee, including Wiper&rsquo;s Kisoi Munyao (Mbooni), Joe Mutambo (Mwingi Central), John Munuve (Mwingi North), Richard Makenga (Kaiti) and Regina Ndambuki (Kilome). Others who have joined President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s party are Chama Cha Uzalendo&rsquo;s Vincent Musyoka (Mwala) and Vincent Munyaka (Machakos Town) and Muungano&rsquo;s Francis Mwangangi (Yatta). These leaders have challenged Kalonzo&rsquo;s strong grip on Ukambani and whether this will kill their political careers remains to be seen.&nbsp;