Deputy President William Ruto has termed the current unga crisis as temporary and would end within the next few weeks. He said the rising prices of essential food commodities was being handled by relevant State departments and told Opposition leaders to stop using the situation as a campaign tool. &ldquo;We are handling the issue and the situation will normalise within the next one month,&rdquo; he said. Ruto was speaking in Kuria Sub-county in Migori County where he presented campaign goodies to the locals. The DP commissioned the 25km Motebaru- Suba Kuria-Getonganya-Masaba Road to help open up the region. He also announced a Sh380 million rehabilitation project of the Kehancha Sub-county Hospital. Speaking at Mabera township, Ruto pleaded with the Kuria community to support President Uhuru Kenyatta in the August polls, saying the National Super Alliance (NASA) had nothing to offer Kenyans. &ldquo;The NASA team are sweet talkers without a tangible development plan. They have no manifesto for Kenyans. I am asking you to reject them because they are just opportunists,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: Inside NASA secret plot for crucial Coastal vote He said the Jubilee Government will fulfill its pledges to Kenyans. &ldquo;We are fulfilling the promises we made. We talked of free maternity to save mothers and children during childbirth and we are doing so. We pledged to bridge the gap between the haves and have nots and last year we said candidates will not pay examination fees,&rdquo; he said. He added: &ldquo;From January next year, secondary school education will be free in public schools if you give us another chance.&rdquo; The DP said the money transfer programme for the elderly had changed lives in Migori County and had increased from 8,500 to 24,000 in the past five years. Ruto said households with access to electricity in the area had increased to 40,000, up from 8,000 when Jubilee took power in 2013. &ldquo;This is why we want to plead with the people of Migori to make the right choices and vote for Jubilee come August,&rdquo; he said. Party primaries He awarded nomination certificates to parliamentary aspirants, including Mathias Robi (Kuria West) and Maisori Marwa (Kuria East).&nbsp; ALSO READ: NASA and Jubilee lay winning plans Mr Robi thanked Ruto for the development Jubilee has brought to the area. &ldquo;Since independence Jubilee is the only administration that has brought development to Kuria,&rdquo; Robi said. Nairobi County Woman Representative Rachel Shebesh accompanied the DP. Ms Shebesh hit out at ODM for sidelining Migori County Woman Representative Denitah Ghatti from Kuria, by edging her out during the just ended nominations. [email&#160;protected]