Kitui governor aspirant Charity Ngilu has told President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy, William Ruto, to prepare for defeat in the August election. Mrs Ngilu, who was sacked as Lands Cabinet secretary, claimed the Jubilee leaders used her to campaign in 2013 only for them to dump her when they got to power. The Narc party leader claimed that she had played a pivotal role in installing President Kenyatta and his deputy in 2013 and vowed to use the same force to kick them out in August. &ldquo;I warned them of political kizaazaa (confusion) in 2017 if Jubilee did not reform. Jubilee got elected on the platform to reform this country and fight poverty and change the livelihoods of its people without marginalisation of any kind. They must prepare to pack and go in August,&rdquo; she said. The Narc party leader thanked the running mate of the National Super Alliance (NASA) presidential candidate, Kalonzo Musyoka, and others who stood by her and pledged never to fight the former vice president. Soul searching ALSO READ: Raila team pledges to lower cost of living if it wins &ldquo;I have done thorough soul-searching and decided never again to sway the aspirations of our son Kalonzo to be president. Those who know me know that I don&rsquo;t associate with the losing side,&rdquo; Ngilu said. She asked the Kamba community not to gamble with their future by casting their votes to a &#39;crumbling&#39; Jubilee government. &ldquo;Time for change is now and we will not be left behind as a region as the country embraces new leadership in NASA after the August polls,&rdquo; she said. Ngilu, who has chosen Dr Wathe Nzau, a veterinary doctor, agricultural expert, and lecturer at the University of Nairobi, as her running mate, asked her rival, Senator David Musila, to step down and allow her to face Governor Julius Malombe. &ldquo;I want to urge Musila to leave this seat for me. I know his strengths but I can say for sure I will defeat him at the ballot. To avoid humiliation, I ask him to shelve his ambitions and wait for another appointment when NASA forms the government,&rdquo; Ngilu said. She announced that she would officially unveil Dr Nzau on Thursday, when she submits her nomination papers to the electoral commission. A presidential candidate in 1997, Ngilu said she decided to run for governorship to get a better opportunity to serve the entire county. ALSO READ: Mudavadi, Wetang'ula and Onyonka lose phones in city &ldquo;My development track record in my short stint in government is a proven indicator that I can deliver services to the county electorate once given a chance,&rdquo; she said. She said her candidature was aimed at strengthening the resolve to deliver the Narc dream Kenyans had in 2002, but which was lost as the current government took office. The former Cabinet secretary said her priority and that of NASA&#39;s principals was to improve the lives of the Kenyan populace and engage anyone who shares &ldquo;our vision to form a coalition that will be geared towards social justice&quot;. &ldquo;I can categorically state that NASA will win the August elections and form the next government. It is only NASA that I found to match my five-point manifesto that addresses illiteracy, poverty, healthcare, food and water. This is the way to go Kenya,&rdquo; she said. [email&#160;protected]