So this week, we got to see a different side to&nbsp;Sonko&nbsp;- a more suave, articulate and measured Senator Mike&nbsp;Sonkoin his interview on Jeff Koinange Live. We wondered what had happened to the&nbsp;Sonko&nbsp;we are used to and what magic transformation had resulted in this new look and sound. Kudos to&nbsp;Sonko&nbsp;and his team, and I hope that for his own sake he can sustain the momentum and supply us with more substance to redeem Nairobi County. This whole incident had me thinking about how the political scene, how it is changing fast and how politicians have to adopt to success. Now that we are in final stages of the elections here a few tips that might help those who hope to win. Know your wardrobe and master your look For starters, one needs to have some idea on how they want to be perceived by the electorate. Do you want to be seen as youthful energetic candidate or a wise sage who can lead your people into the promised land. Ensure that your wardrobe, which includes your hair and bling complement the look. ALSO READ: High Court stops ODM from conducting fresh nominations in Suba For example, wearing coordinated outfits is so old fashioned and only succeeds in making the candidates appear to belong to some church choir not to a serious political outfit. Tread carefully with colour and patterns - choose only that will bring out the best in you especially bearing in mind that black skin has its own unique response to light and cameras. Women especially need to manage their wardrobe carefully - avoid Spandex and see-through because the last thing you need is for conversation to shift from your manifesto to your nipple formation. Wear clothes that can withstand wear and tear and the rough and tumble of interaction with crows. Manage your soundbites - be a chameleon We have become accustomed to our politicians breathing fire and brimstone as they pour vitriol on their opponents and prophesy doom if they do not have their way. As&nbsp;Sonko&nbsp;surprisingly demonstrated, there is a time and place for everything. Any aspiring candidate must know when to turn up the political craziness and when to modulate it. They must know when it makes sense to be funny and when one needs to be very serious. All in all they need to be chameleons when it comes to what they say - so that it helps their cause. Social media is a double-edged sword ALSO READ: Politicians' huge campaign purse hits economy below the belt All politicians today subscribe to the social media philosophy where they believe that Tweets and posts are the way to get to their supporters&rsquo; hearts. While this has some truth, there is at present no concrete evidence that indicates that likes translates to votes. That said, wrong and inappropriate tweets have seen candidates lose their much-needed sheen and provide their opponents with fodder for attack. Aspirants therefore must carefully manage what they say on social media and if they have nothing meaningful to say they can choose to stay mute or say it on the radio. Taglines and Billboards In a bid to show their creativity and modernity, many politicians have adopted rather interesting taglines. Words like fresh and msupa have found their way into the political scene with somewhat hilarious effects. Sometimes it is better to wait to hear what flattering name the masses have chosen to label you by before you accord one to yourself. Some female aspirants boldly took up the name msupa while very little about their appearance and demeanour spoke msupa - in fact they appeared more matronly than msupa. Be careful about plastering your image on billboards - some of the poses make the candidates look bloated while some are poorly executed adventures into Photoshop. Theatrics and Drama We all agreed that we need drama and theatre in politics - but both are best when they are unscripted and spontaneous. Some aspirants in a desperate bid to shore up their numbers have been rather bizarre acts such as kidnappings to curry favour with the masses. ALSO READ: High Court stops ODM from conducting fresh nominations in Suba As we have seen, these acts have not magically brought in the numbers. So avoid drama, unless it finds you or you are sure it will help add to the vote count. Finally remember to have a team of fix-it &mdash; those who can clean up your mess if and when it happens. Have a team who tell you how to deal with the media, who manage your look, who tell you the bitter truth especially when you do not want to hear it, and who make sure you never run out of money.