The significance of President Uhuru Kenyatta&#39;s address at the G7 summit in Sicily Italy might have escaped many. Mr Kenyatta was the first Head of State in independent Kenya to address the seven men and women leaders of the world&#39;s most advanced economies. &quot;A freer, more prosperous Africa is a vital partner in solving some of the world&#39;s most pressing problems: poverty, immigration, climate change, terrorism,&quot; said President Kenyatta in Taormina, Italy. He was championing the course of a continent once described as The Hopeless Continent by The Economist news magazine nearly 20 years ago. The podium he stood on bore great significance to Africa and most importantly, Kenya. Other heads of State who have addressed the G7 include former presidents Thabo Mbeki of South Africa and Nigeria&#39;s Olesugun Obasanjo. Since taking office in 2013, Mr Kenyatta has sought to reset Kenya&#39;s position in the region and continent. For far too long, Kenya had punched below its weight despite being the region&#39;s powerhouse. Kenya&#39;s economy (worth $63.40 billion in 2015) is the biggest in the East African region, boosted by its liberal market economics, better infrastructure, and a huge well-educated human resource and robust technology. In four years, Mr Kenyatta has recast the image of Kenya from an inward-looking, timid country to one ready to welcome the world and do business with it. ALSO READ: No mention of Africa as G7 leaders start crucial talks However, for those feeling hard done by, by the political leadership, an appearance at the G7 is of little significance. For corruption remains rampant and public health care unreliable. Though bold steps have been taken to reform the education sector, there still remains a lot to be done to make it more responsive to the needs of an increasingly competitive global economy. Though a large proportion of the people get to choose their leaders and representatives, our democracy remains largely dysfunctional. Political gangsterism defines our politics. Corruption makes it harder for the youth to climb the ladder of opportunity. When funds meant for projects to stimulate growth are stolen, this inhibits job opportunities for the youth because it dissuades investors. Hopefully, Mr Kenyatta&#39;s appearance at the G7 will, if nothing else, nudge him to promote a clean, efficient, and more responsive government because, ultimately, he will be judged by the standard of the company he keeps.