&nbsp; The government&rsquo;s commitment to transform the way public service delivery is provided to Kenyans cannot be foresaid. Indeed, it is their constitutional right to excellent services from the government. The first step in this direction by the government was the introduction of Huduma Centres, which is three years old but its impact on the transformation of the provision of public service in Kenya has already been felt locally and internationally. And now, my ministry is launching a joint outreach programme that brings commonly sought after public services to Kenyans at the grassroots and sub- county level using the popular Huduma Centre model. Huduma Mashinani is a citizen-centred mobile outreach programme through which all agencies in my ministry will provide their services in each of the 47 counties today and tomorrow. These includes services from the National Youth Service, currently involved in alleviating youth unemployment in both formal and informal sectors by providing skills necessary for employment while promoting national cohesion and Women Enterprise Fund that provide accessible and affordable credit to support women start or expand business for wealth and employment creation. ALSO READ: NYS volunteers wait for withheld savings Wide reach The Youths Enterprise Fund, which provides financial support and business development services to youth owned enterprises, Uwezo Fund, which expands access to finances in promotion of youth and women businesses and enterprises at the constituency level for economic growth. All established Huduma Centres have piloted this programme by conducting at least two Huduma Mashinani outreach programmes monthly to ensure more Kenyans are reached with consistent frequency. Huduma Mashinani, in its pilot phase, has served over 27,000 people at the grassroots level since it was launched early this year in areas within Nairobi and at Coast, covering Mombasa, Kwale, Kilifi and Lamu. Other regions include Embu, Tharaka-Nithi, Kitale, Eldoret, Taita Taveta, Kisii, Nyamira, Narok, Busia, Garissa and Wajir. The determination by the Huduma Kenya Programme to successfully reach Kenyans regardless of their geographical location and give them access to excellent public services will mark a major milestone in service delivery. It is also expected that Huduma Mashinani will bolster the other channels of service delivery under the Huduma Kenya Programme and act as a launch platform for creating knowledge and awareness on other upcoming digital products. With 45 Huduma Centres now established in 41 Counties, Huduma Kenya is focused on shaping the success of the second phase of the its programmes that include the online &lsquo;e-Huduma&rsquo; portal to provide integrated government services 24 hours a day from a computer anywhere in the country. M-government Further, the organization will offer mobile phone or &lsquo;m-Huduma&rsquo; platform for M-government services to citizens from the convenience of their mobile phones and Huduma Contact Centre customer service using a single dialling prefix that citizens can use for service enquiries. Already, a unified and integrated multi-channel payment gateway, the Huduma Card, to facilitate easy receipt and payment of government services, is currently undergoing a pilot phase with a view to rolling it out soon. The Huduma Centres are offering up to 45 different Public Services. Soon, we will establish offices in Bomet, Vihiga, West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet, Tana River and Mandera. It provides services to those who seek to start or expand their business through the Youth Entreprise Development Fund, Women Entreprise Fund and Uwezo Fund. It provides information on National Youth Service programmes including the Youth Empowerment Programme and creates awareness on Gender Based Violence Rescue Centres among others. The new initiative will enable Huduma Kenya to reach more people, up from the 30,000 people it serves daily. Its revenue generation will surpass Sh12 billion for government ministries, departments and agencies through the Posta Pay System during the last financial year. The citizen-centric Huduma Kenya Programme is already bench-marking against world-class best practice in service delivery winning many firsts in Global Awards. Mrs Kariuki is the Cabinet Secretary for Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs