It is easy for memories of the 2013 contestation of President Uhuru Kenyatta&#39;s election by the Opposition to come back in view of the heightened political posturing, but more so at the current opposition&#39;s stand; threatening to boycott elections unless certain conditions are met. This combative attitude by the Opposition is not good for democracy, but an intransigent Government does not also help matters. While the 2013 presidential election dispute was handled peacefully and in line with the requirements of the law, therefore marking a shift from the chaos that swept through the country over the disputed 2007 presidential election results, there is danger, as opinion polls have indicated, of violence breaking out over presidential results this year unless both sides of the political divide tone down their utterances. It takes one careless statement to ignite a country, yet that is the last thing Kenyans want, especially now that the country is on course for greater development and when the international community has identified Kenya as an investment destination of choice. Political parties must handle their affairs with decorum, handle outstanding matters legally and stop putting pressure on the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. At the Judiciary&#39;s launch of Election Committee 2016 annual report, Chief Justice David Maraga assured the country the Judiciary was prepared to handle any disputes arising from the August elections. But such disputes can be rendered unnecessary if the electoral agency conducts credible elections. IEBC must conduct itself in a manner that leaves no doubt the elections were free and fair. It is not beyond politicians to instigate chaos when election results do not favour them, and this we must guard against. Institutions charged with maintaining peace and order, notably the police, the Judiciary, the National Cohesion and Integration Commission and the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions must go the extra mile to ensure peace and orderliness prevail before and after the August elections. Indeed, the concluded party primaries offer lessons that the country can build on. ALSO READ: ODM tribunal adjourns after 'Men in black' storm meeting in Nairobi