NAIROBI, KENYA: National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA) in partnership with stakeholders has launched a technological system aimed at minimizing road accidents along the Northern Corridor. Senior NTSA senior officials said that the journey management solution dubbed Checkmate will provide the ideal platform for huge fleet owners to monitor, evaluate and plan road trips of any kind so as to minimise chances of avoidable road accidents. NTSA Director General Francis Meja said the road safety lapses that result in fatal accidents and bad injuries along the Northern Corridor can be curbed significantly by the use of the device. During the launch of the checkmate checkpoint at Maungu Township in Taita-Taveta County, NTSA, Pioneer Road Safety Consultant (PRSC) Limited, the traffic department, county government and transport companies did a physical demonstration of the equipment that will be carried out at one of the Check Points along the Nairobi-Mombasa highway. The demonstration enabled members of the press, transporters and the public to acquaint themselves with the new technology. ALSO READ: Enforce traffic laws to curb road accidents Addressing the public at Maungu Lorry Park, Mr Meja said the unique trip management system has been launched for fleet owners, as the Government seeks to stem the tide of accidents on Kenyan roads. &quot;The service seeks to help commercial road operators plan, monitor and evaluate their trips. Through a series of check points and road patrols, initially along the Northern Corridor, the system seeks to provide a number of services to commercial providers of road transport,&quot; said the DG. He said the services include the use of GPS (Global Positioning System) tracking to monitor driver behavior and performance between check points. At each check point, drivers will be expected to undergo a thorough performance review, besides being observed and randomly tested for alcohol levels to ensure compliance, said the official. Other components of the service suite include a mandatory 15-minute rest at each check point; a record of hazards between check points by the driver and advise on the same; vehicle inspection to ensure compliance before release and information on observations that could compromise safety, Meja told the road users. In case of an accident, the officials said Checkmate will move to the site on behalf of fleet owners to provide initial reports, rescue services and accident investigation reports. The system also entails the provision of random road patrol services on behalf of fleet owners and reportage of non-compliance or any issues that may compromise road safety, besides the use of check points as road safety training and information centres for drivers. ALSO READ: 27 people die in fatal accident along Mombasa-Nairobi highway