Nyeri Governor Samuel Wamathai is mobilising fellow aspirants who lost in the Jubilee primaries to beat the party&rsquo;s candidate in August 8. Mr Wamathai, who announced he would defend his seat as an independent, has picked Evans Githinji, alias Cocorico, as his running mate. By picking Githinji as his running mate, Wamathai dropped his earlier choice, Erastus Muriuki, the county education and ICT executive. Yesterday, the county boss confirmed he had been cleared by Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) and the Registrar of Political Parties to contest for governorship. Wamathai said even if his name was yet to be gazetted, he obtained clearance on Wednesday last week and would be defending his seat in the August 8 poll. Face off ALSO READ: Governor Kinuthia Mbugua and rival dig in for major political battle The governor will now face off with Jubilee Party (JP) Nominee Wahome Gakuru for the county top job. Wamathai said he had formed a formidable force with aspirants who lost in the nominations and was willing to form an inclusive coalition. &ldquo;I am in the process of re-igniting my political support base once again in the six constituencies with those who lost in the primaries on board,&rdquo; he said. During the nominations, Wamathai came second after garnering 65,000 votes against Gakuru&rsquo;s 114,000 votes. Senator Mutahi Kagwe came third after garnering 56,000 votes. Wamathai&rsquo;s new choice for a running mate had pulled out of the party&rsquo;s primaries, but still attracted several thousand votes. Last week, a section of politicians in the county met to hatch a plan to forge a united front against Gakuru. ALSO READ: Opinion: Pain of voters caught between proud Jubilee and tactless NASA The regrouping brought on board some losers in the primaries plotting to support Wamathai to fight it out with Gakuru. &ldquo;We shall be making everything public in due course but we have met as like-minded people,&rdquo; said Ginjinji. According to those involved in the negotiations, other aspirants would be part of a county governing council.