A former cleric in Coventry in the United Kingdom is among those who won in the just concluded party primaries. When Sylas Tochim, left his job at the Birmingham and Coventry based Adventist church said he was not sure of what was in store for him as he prepared to run for the Tenges Ward seat. &quot;I had done several projects in the area for the last four years, many people knew me but I was not sure that I would win, you know elections can go either way,&quot; said Tochim. The theologian with a masters in a- MA Theology (Mission) from University of Wales. Lampeter and another - MA peace studies from University of Coventry both in the United Kingdom (UK) started his campaigns for the Jubilee Party primaries weeks to the nomination and went ahead to win. According to him, past initiated projects in the ward gave him vast mileage; supporting groups, assisting churches acquire public address systems and his support for the school going students. He lauds the social media and strong group of campaign groups for his victory against the incumpent and his other competitors in the ward. &quot; I had a ground team of 54 members; 10 inner campaign steering team and 44 members from every polling station, two from each polling center, there are 22 polling centers in Tenges ward.they really helped in the campaigns and ensured victory,&quot; said Tochim. ALSO READ: NASA and Jubilee lay winning plans The former Adventist clegy said that he is already working with his worthy competitors to ensure that he wins the august 8th general elections. &quot;Once elected, I want to concentrate on uplifting education is my top priority. I will endevour to seek scholatships, much emphssis on postgraduate studies for bright students in Tenges ward. He also said that he would like to empower not only farmers by introducing improved agricultural methods for dairy and farming but nurture and promote talents among the youth. &quot;Infrastructure in the three 3 locations Emom, Kisonei Eitui, Tenges and Chepkero locations that forms Tenges Ward will be my priority as well, I will strive to improve existing roads and open new roads. I will put more focus on the youth in service provision though I will not leave behind any age group. According to Tochim, while in the UK he participated in the initial and formative stages of Kotaab mioot a Kalenjin professional group, Europe chapter and has been a senior panelist of Kass diaspora peograme, a programe which enlightened the community on diverse issues. &quot; I am now a good will ambassador of Kotab Mioot Euroupe community,&quot; said Tochim. &nbsp; ALSO READ: Why ethnic numbers alone won&rsquo;t decide polls outcome