Being a visitor of the State is usually an unpleasant encounter, with nothing to write home about. Dark, filthy, dingy and with bucket toilets overflowing with human waste best describe Kenya&rsquo;s police cells. Stories of insufficient food rations, outbreak of diseases from congestion and harsh treatment from police officers have been retold countless times by former detainees. Despite the fear of the perceived inhuman treatment in many detention facilities in the country, most Kenyans agree that Buruburu Police Station is far the best facility to be locked up in, in Nairobi. Last week, the Independent Police Oversight Authority (Ipoa) named Buruburu Police Station the best detention or holding facility in Nairobi. It was rated the second best in the country after Lumakanda Police Station in Kakamega County. Metropolitan set out to establish if the station deserved the award and if the residents concurred. What struck us was the level of cleanliness of the facility which is rare in most detention facilities. At the reception, was a large banner that reads, &ldquo;If not satisfied, please do not leave without speaking with the officer in-charge.&rdquo; Ventilated cells Contrary to the general outlook of most detention facilities, Buruburu Police Station has access to continuous supply of clean tap water, clean functional ablution block and very well-lit and ventilated cells. Cells and toilets are separated for juveniles, male, female and mentally-ill offenders which are clean and well maintained. &ldquo;We have casuals who clean the entire facility from 5am every day. During that time, the remandees bask in an enclosed open roof space,&rdquo; said the station&rsquo;s Officer Commanding Police Division Geoffrey Mayek. The detainees also bask whenever the cells get cold. &ldquo;We provide three sufficient meals every day. In addition to that, we allow them to receive food from outside to take care of those on special diet,&rdquo; Mr Mayek said. There is also a well-kept child protection area, with a large playground completely fixed with playing equipment. This section also has separate rooms for male and female juveniles. &ldquo;This juvenile area is manned by a female officer who does not put on police uniform that could frighten the children,&rdquo; he said. Mr Mayek attributes their outstanding performance to high professionalism among the officers. &ldquo;I always encourage my staff to refer cases that they cannot handle to a more experienced officer. We also encourage them to be people-friendly to create a working environment,&rdquo; he added. Martin Weru, a Buruburu resident agreed with the OCPD&rsquo;s sentiments saying: &ldquo;Buruburu police officers are very polite and efficient.&rdquo; Ipoa and Rotary Club of Nairobi initiated the Outstanding Police Service Awards in 2014 to motivate officers. [email&#160;protected]