Ongata Rongai, about 17km away from the city noise and pollution, is the perfect weekend &#39;nyama choma&#39; and beer getaway. However, the area is far from being serene as many might imagine - it is largely characterised by huge piles of garbage and open sewage, posing a serious health hazards for residents. The drainage system along the busy street accommodates raw sewage from residential and commercials plots in the area. Pieces of plastic pipes used to dispatch the sewer waste into the open drainage system are clearly visible. The illegal disposal method is employed between 8pm and 9pm, or at dawn - when there is minimal human traffic. Along the busy highway is a farmers&rsquo; market accessible by crossing over what was supposed to be an exclusively storm water drainage system but that is now mixed with sewage, vegetable waste and plastics. ALSO READ: Donkey meat firm on the spot for poor waste disposal Unbearable stench The stench in the area is unbearable but business goes on as usual. Edna Mosomi, a market vendor, said they depend on the National Youth Service to clear the drainage system and carry away the waste products. &ldquo;The stench is from the stagnant water. We would like the drainage system to be unblocked,&rdquo; said Ms Mosomi. Denis Madewa, a butchery attendant, was more concerned with the dangers posed to the public by the open drainage system. He said they have had to pull out children and drunk men who accidentally fell in. Other businesses operating close to the health hazard are hotels and fast food stores, bakeries, shops and mini markets. As you move further into the residential areas and away from the highway, the situation gets worse. ALSO READ: Rongai is drowning in raw sewer and garbage On a service lane referred to as Helena Road is an open sewer directed towards some residential plots and into Mbagathi River. One of the tenants complained that they had to deal with the foul smell and sometimes even had to manoeuvre through the waste when it rains. &ldquo;The sewage was directed towards our compound less than a year ago. Our plot floods with raw sewage during the rainy season, forcing us to stay indoors or brace the dirty water when we have an urgent matter to address,&rdquo; she said. The river running through the area collects almost all the waste from the residential plots from sewage to kitchen waste and household waste. Plastic bags and bottles can be seen floating or caught between trees in the river and if you are keen-eyed, you will see green slimy water trickling from the sides into the river. Usually awful &ldquo;You have come at a time when the smell has been diluted by the rains; it is usually awful,&rdquo; said Cyprian Ogoti, a resident and environmentalist. Mr Ogoti said while the area lacked a proper sewer line, its introduction should be complemented by a treatment plant. &ldquo;We can easily streamline our waste. It is possible to treat the sewage, which can be turned into fertiliser and the treated water can be used for household chores like flushing toilets,&rdquo; he recommended. Ogoti added that the situation near the market and the residential and commercial plots predisposed residents to waterborne diseases like cholera. Lack of proper waste disposal points has also forced residents to dispose of their garbage outside their apartments. Patches of burnt garbage can be seen in some areas releasing pollutants like carbon dioxide, mercury and acid into the atmosphere. Others have created piles of waste along foot paths. Rongai, a nyama choma hub, is simply choking in filth.