NAIROBI, KENYA: In a market where many have a wide variety to choose from, phone makers are outdoing each other to win the hearts of consumers. Currently, major phone brands are represented in Kenya and according to research by evolita for the last period, 2016 Q3, the largest presented item is Samsung Smartphone with Market Share of 24.37 percent. The fastest growing participant in the report is Huawei Smartphone with 16.99 percent growth in Market Share over 2 years between 2015 Q1 to 2016 Q3. Other phone brands represented in the market include iPhone, Tecno, Oppo, Nokia among others According to a random interview with consumers, the growing appetite for Huawei phone products is linked to research put in the process which has yielded to products with quality camera, long lasting batteries and sleek designs which goes well with majority consumers. Its latest product in the market, the GR5 2017, which is a smartphone with dual rear cameras does not only come with affordable price tag but also a better design. ALSO READ: Samsung posts impressive first-quarter profit &ldquo;The 2.5D glass up front, and a metal back. It&rsquo;s not striking, nor is it fancy, but when held in the hand, it feels like an expensive piece of jewelry crafted with the utmost level of precision,&rdquo; says Rosemary Atieno. &ldquo;But what I like with the phone is the dual rear cameras which is responsible for the quality photos,&rdquo; she adds also noting that the phone&rsquo;s colors are accurate capturing details in objects under focus &ldquo;It doesn&rsquo;t have any stabilization though, so you&rsquo;ll have to keep your hands in check when taking photos.&rdquo; The charging time for the phone averages 2 hours to charge the device from 0 percent to full using the supplied charger. Like most phones, it is capable of managing battery by using the power only on essential duties. The fingerprint sensor, as with all Huawei phones I have used, is fast and works very consistently. The phone unlocks fast with the sensor being easy to find without looking for it. The device has got good video quality and has internal storage 32 GB,64 GB, (eMMC 5.1 Technology) which helps to store enough data of music and video files. ALSO READ: How to choose TV that will display 4K HDR content for best viewing experience Expendable memory can upgrade up to 128 GB with MicroSD, (Uses Sim 2 Slot) memory card. Huawei GR5 (2017) supports Stereo FM Radio along with FM Recording feature. Device has the power to playback music up to 60 hours through standard media player.