Former Kathiani MP Wavinya Ndeti will fly the Wiper party ticket for Machakos Governor in the August 8 General Election after winning in repeat nomination exercise.&nbsp; Wavinya garnered a whopping 227, 947 votes against Bernard Kiala&rsquo;s 4,508 in repeat party primaries conducted on Saturday following an order by the Political Parties Tribunal last Friday after Kiala contested an earlier nomination exercise. The results were announced on Saturday mid-night by the county returning officer Jacob Mutula at Machakos Muslim Township Primary School &ndash; the county tallying center. This sets the stage for a fierce political contest between Wavinya,&nbsp;the incumbent Governor Alfred Mutua who will defend his seat through his party Maendeleo Chap Chap and&nbsp;Jubilee Party&rsquo;s Lemi Muia. The results of the repeat nomination exercise appeared to vindicate the party&rsquo;s National Elections Board which had earlier been accused by Kiala and his supporters of cooking up votes in favor of Wavinya who had initially garnered 299,312 votes against 4,663 for Kiala. &ldquo;The results we have announced today are a vindication on the part of the National Elections Board and of course, our candidates who had been accused of meddling with figures to favor one side. Now the people of Machakos have spoken loud and clear,&rdquo; said Mutula. ALSO READ: New cracks over NASA flagbearer Wavinya defeated Kiala in all the eight constituencies in&nbsp;the county to emerge the most preferred candidate for the August 8 General Election. In Mavoko for instance, she garnered 57,719 votes compared to Kiala&rsquo;s 232; in Kathiani she scooped 37,120 while Kiala managed a paltry 146 votes. Voter turn-out was however, largely frustrated by heavy rains which pounded most parts of the county on the voting day. Wavinya, who was accompanied by her running mate-outgoing East African Legislative Assembly MP Peter Mathuki, Mavoko MP Patrick Makau and Machakos Town Wiper party parliamentary nominee Ulbanus Mutisya, urged Machakos residents to vote for her come August. &ldquo;I thank the great people of Machakos for honoring me with this nomination as a Wiper party nominee and I pledge to work with you to slay the dragon of massive corruption and looting of public funds being perpetrated by the current regime if you elect me as your next governor,&rdquo; a jubilated Wavinya said in her acceptance speech. &nbsp;She extended an olive branch to Kiala, asking him to join her team and work towards ensuring the party captured the seat in the General Election. Mathuki described their win as &lsquo;a win for the people of Machakos&rsquo; and urged Machakos residents to turn out in large numbers and vote in a similar manner in the August polls. &ldquo;The culture of impunity and political treachery must come to an end. This is a great victory for the people of Machakos and we are urging you to vote in the same way come August general election,&rdquo; said Mathuki. ALSO READ: Wiper chairman David Musila quits the party