For most of his term as governor, William Kabogo has been at loggerheads with local leaders, including MPs. Many of the leaders have been unhappy with the governor&rsquo;s leadership style and have often accused him of failing to consult them on key decisions unless there was a crisis. They also accused the governor of disrespecting them. However, such acrimony is set to change if Jubilee governorship nominee Ferdinand Waititu is elected on August 8. Mr Waititu, who defeated Kabogo in the Jubilee Party nominations, is now seeking to unite the local leaders to ensure that they speak with one voice in matters development. The Kabete MP is leading a group dubbed &lsquo;United for Kiambu&rsquo; that comprises three governor hopefuls who shelved their ambitions and supported him. They have launched what they describe as the &lsquo;Kiambu Leadership Council&rsquo; where local leaders will consult on important decisions. ALSO READ: Opinion: Raise quality of voter engagement on issues The main agenda will be to establish harmony among political leaders and ensure consultation that will lead to integrated development. The council will comprise the governor, deputy governor, senator, woman representative, all 12 MPs and all 60 MCAs. James Nyoro, David Ngari who is commonly known as Gakuyo, John Mugwe and Aquiline Njoki, all of who shelved their ambitions to be governor to support Waititu, are part of the team. &ldquo;Only unity and harmony among political leaders will ensure development in our county,&rdquo; said Waititu when he hosted Jubilee nominees for various seats. He said if elected, he would ensure that political wrangles became a thing of the past. Waititu said his team was ready to work with all elected leaders for the sake of the well-being of residents. &ldquo;It is my prayer that we shall join hands and work together for the good of our county. The people of Kiambu mean business and they expect leadership that is devoted to service delivery. We will publicly shame those who try to divide Kiambu,&rdquo; said Waititu. ALSO READ: Waiguru bags Jubilee nomination certificate after her challenger loses appeal He said he would also devolve more funds to the wards as well as develop an integrated development plan to avoid duplication of projects. &ldquo;It will no longer be business as usual.&rdquo;