More Kenyans are prone to electrical accidents due to localised faults. According to a report by the Kenya Power, six fatal accidents are reported every month. More than 32 per cent of these electrical accidents occur in homes due to poor wiring and illegal connections. Kenya Power Manager in charge Safety, Health and Environment John Guda said Kenya has a long way to go in addressing electrical accidents, especially from illegal connections. &ldquo;Looking at our statistics, we are still far below the acceptable standards in public safety compared to countries in the developed world, but we can prevent these electrical accidents from happening. This will require a shared approach to ensure that Kenyans use electricity safely,&rdquo; he said. Speaking during an interview, Guda said illegal connections and extensions, vandalism and poor wiring are rampant in many parts of the country, especially in the informal settlements which causes electrocution. &ldquo;Majority of dwellers in places like Kibra, Kayole, Mathare, Mukuru among other informal settlements are prone to electrical accidents due to illegal connections which expose users and other residents to fatal injuries,&rdquo; he explained. ALSO READ: Masai just can&rsquo;t stop winning Connection fee He noted that Kenya Power has played its role in ensuring such accidents do not occur, but warned that Kenyans do not learn. &ldquo;Even after the government lowered the connection fee and offered &lsquo;stima&rsquo; loan facilities, many are still busy stealing electricity from power lines and in the process, they get fatally injured,&rdquo; he noted. Poor wiring and use of &lsquo;jua kali&rsquo; electricians also play a big part in the electrical causalities among Kenyan households. The manager urged the public to use&nbsp; qualified, competent and licensed electricians. He noted that most home developers do not use Kenya Power or qualified electricians when installing power to their premises, which posses danger to the occupants. Vandalism and encroachment on land where power lines are also ranked among the main contributors of electrical accidents according to the power utility firm. The company said it has put in place measures to ensure that Kenyans are protected whenever they use electricity. &ldquo;Every region has its own team that ensures that everything runs smoothly and a department that deals with emergencies,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: How token system works in paying for electricity &ldquo;A part from that, we have a standards department that inspects and ensures all the products installed in every area of the network meet our specifications, which are based on international standards.&rdquo; Guda noted that Kenya Power has forged partnership with stakeholders to create awareness on safe use of electricity among Kenyans.