Baringo Senator Gideon Moi has said he will stand firm to achieve his political ambitions despite attempts to plant a rival against him in the county. Gideon said some individuals in Government felt threatened by his 2022 presidential ambitions and had resorted to sponsoring a rival against him but not out of their love for the people of Baringo. &quot;This fight I am facing is about 2022 and has nothing to do with the welfare of Baringo people. Their scheme is to have a puppet senator who can sing to their whims and especially with the discovery of resources such as oil and other precious minerals in the county,&quot; he said. He said he would continue defending the people of Baringo despite all efforts, including propaganda, to tarnish his reputation in an effort to trounce him. &quot;I pity my brother who has accepted to be used to the point of using lies for selfish interests,&quot; he said. The senator called on residents to stand with him, saying he had a long way to walk and needed their support as he could not walk alone. ALSO READ: Kanu reaps big in Samburu as leaders ditch Jubilee Party Gideon said his troubles intensified when he questioned why the Kalenjin community was getting a raw deal in the Government despite Deputy President William Ruto always telling the community he was an equal partner in the Jubilee administration. &quot;Little did I know I was inserting my hands in a beehive as the journey to finish me politically started,&quot; he said. He said the frequent visits to the county by Ruto was to achieve his mission of ensuring that the region had no strong leader to defend the people. &quot;He has been here 37 times and I say thank you for welcoming him. Continue welcoming him for the many visits he will make but be sure the day I am out of this seat, you will never see him again because his mission will have been accomplished,&quot; he said. He said the region needed a strong leader who could stand up to bullies and not someone to be cowed and pushed around. Gideon will be facing Jubilee candidate Simon Chelugui, who succumbed to pressure by the DP to stop his governor bid and contest the senatorial seat. &quot;He will come here trying to persuade you to turn your backs against me. He will tell you all kinds of words and make development promises for him to be seen as if he cares about you more than I do,&quot; he said. The senator added that the people of Baringo should learn to stand on their own and see what is right for them. Gideon at the same time lashed out at those claiming he had done nothing, saying they could not substantiate their claims. He said he was always in the forefront making sure that the county got its rightful allocation from the national budget. &quot;Have you ever heard our county being locked out of the annual budget? This is because I have always been there to fight for our rightful share,&quot; he said.