MPs have passed a report that may deal a blow to the political career of former Devolution Cabinet Secretary Anne Waiguru. The lawmakers voted to adopt a report on the multi-billion National Youth Service (NYS) scandal by the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) that recommended Waiguru, a Kirinyaga Jubilee Party aspiring governor, barred from holding public office over the saga. The report by PAC on a special audit of the NYS accounts also recommends that a lifestyle audit be carried out on the former powerful CS, in light of her overall leadership failures at the ministry. Also on the firing line are all the individuals mentioned in connection with the scandal, with former Planning Principal Secretary Joseph Mang&#39;iti and other senior Devolution Ministry officials. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen will also be punished, as the report by the Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo led committee recommends punitive sanctions on him if found culpable. A law firm associated with Mr Murkomen, a close ally of Deputy President William Ruto is cited in the report for allegedly abetting money laundering. This is after huge sums of money suspected to have originated from NYS were channeled through the firm; Sing&#39;oei, Murkomen and Sigei Advocates. ALSO READ: Why NTSA wants matatu drivers trained by NYS &quot;The Director of Public Prosecutions should immediately prefer charges of aiding and abetting money laundering on the partners of the following law firms: Sing&#39;oei, Murkomen and Sigei Advocates , MM Gitonga Advocates and Ogola &amp; Mujera Advocates,&quot; stated the PAC report. According to the committee&#39;s report, Central Bank Governor Patrick Njoroge should also be investigated, with a view of establishing whether he should be charged with abuse of office for abetting the theft of funds at the Ministry of Devolution and the National Youth Service. &quot;This matter made some of us to make enemies. The saga was a well-designed, well-orchestrated, and planned. From the probe we discovered that government funds are not well utilised. Our efforts should not go down the drain,&quot; said PAC vice-chairman Jackson Rop (Kipkelion West). &quot;The NYS scandal will remain the largest in the Jubilee administration. It was shocking in nature, well-crafted, clearly thought through, and involved sophisticated professionals. The only way you can appreciate the efforts we made as a committee is to adopt the report,&quot; a PAC members Abdikadir Aden (Mbalambala) told MPs .Johana Ng&#39;eno (Emurua Dikirr) and Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja) said it was shocking that the Jubilee Party awarded nomination certificates during the recent primaries to Waiguru and Murkomen. &quot;For JP to issue the duo with nomination certificates, is confirming that the party led by the President is complacent in the matter. These people should not be allowed to vie for any position,&quot; said Mr Ngeno. Mr Wandayi(Ugunja ) said: &quot;It is sad that someone who was actively involved in the planning of this NYS scandal will soon be a governor of one of the counties. If we do not adopt the report, this house will go down in history as one which abetted corruption and theft of public funds. ALSO READ: Residents hold a pro-waiguru demonstration