ODM has officially given its leader Raila Odinga the nod to contest the presidency, even as the National Super Alliance (NASA) leaders declared they would mobilise at least 10 million votes to send the Jubilee regime home. Raila, who will fly the NASA flag in what will be his last attempt, said the opposition had the numbers to win the August 8 General Election. At a colourful ODM National&nbsp;Delegates&nbsp;Convention in Nairobi yesterday, Raila was proposed by the Garissa branch party chairman Gedi Abdi and seconded by Busia County Women League chairperson Angela Nafula. The 4,200&nbsp;delegates&nbsp;drawn from the 47 counties carried banners bearing #10million and Mbele Pamoja (Forward together) slogans, which they waved as the leaders spoke. Raila described the moment as historic, saying it will be a long treacherous journey but which NASA will manage because it has what it takes to navigate to destination. &ldquo;Kuna nyoka...kuna mamba ndani ya mto Jordan. Lakini sisi kama wana NASA tuna nguvu ya kuvuka hadi Canaan (There is a snake, and crocodile inside the Jordan but we as NASA have the energy to close to Canaan),&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: In pursuit of power NASA must make the people feel they too belong Raila added: &ldquo;This endorsement has come at the defining moment in our time. Our economy is in turmoil. The cost of living is high and we as NASA have a responsibility to free Kenya for the third and last time.&rdquo; Raila criticised President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto for claiming the NASA team is power hungry. He said the two leaders were also competing for power. &ldquo;I want to remind them that governance is about power. Jubilee wants power to monopolise it for their benefits while we want it to address challenges facing the nation.&rdquo; Raila and his co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka and Musalia Mudavadi took the opportunity to address the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC), saying NASA will not allow anyone to try to steal elections. &ldquo;If you love this country, do not try to steal elections this August. We will not let you,&rdquo; the ODM leader warned. Kalonzo said: &ldquo;Whatever happened in 2013 can&rsquo;t be repeated this time round. Elections can never be rigged again since we have sealed all loopholes, including the sending the former commissioners home.&rdquo; Court ruling The leaders also asked IEBC to reconsider its decision to appeal a High Court ruling that said results declared at constituency levels by returning officers are final. ALSO READ: Before their victory dance, NASA must be wary of bumps ahead Mudavadi said he hoped IEBC chairman Wafula Chibukati was not doing lip service by shuffling election officials. &ldquo;The Constitution requires that votes are tallied at constituency level. Let&rsquo;s hope the chairman is not doing lip service and the reshuffled officers are not those who will take instructions from someone to bungle elections,&rdquo; he said. The ANC leader added: &ldquo;Jubilee must go home. We don&rsquo;t want a run off but one off. We must remove Jubilee from power. Let every Kenyan become a NASA astronaut to take Kenya to the next level.&rdquo; ODM chairman John Mbadi said: &ldquo;We are saying that the appeal that IEBC has lodged to allow it tally results in Nairobi cannot be accepted. Results declared at the constituency level are final.&rdquo; Governors Evans Kidero (Nairobi), Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega), Hassan Joho (Mombasa) and Josphat Nanok (Turkana) also addressed the&nbsp;delegates. &ldquo;This is the only opportunity for us all who have suffered to take the reins of power. There is no other opportunity than now that Kenya can break the dynasty that has dominated this country. Let Raila Odinga be that bridge that people from marginalised to have chances to rule,&rdquo; Nanok said. Joho added: &ldquo;We are certain in God&rsquo;s grace you shall take us to Canaan. Frustrations from Jubilee give us the impetus to send it home in August. The future of our children and that of our grandchildren is today in our hands.&rdquo; ALSO READ: Kidero may be harder to beat than most people imagine Oparanya said: &ldquo;The economy of this country has collapsed and you are the savior of this nation. You must come out and vote for Raila Odinga. NASA is going to create a super nation with super health care, super agriculture, super water provision and its only Raila who can deliver this.&rdquo; Governor Isaac Ruto (Chama Cha Mashinani) and Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula of Ford Kenya were absent, with the latter being in Uganda for a Senate function. In a bid to assure supporters of his co-principals that all was well in the alliance, Raila reiterated that he will only rule for one term if elected and endorse his number two as a successor. Meanwhile, NASA will hold a rally in Bomet today in an attempt to shore up support in the populous Rift Valley. During the event, Governor Ruto will unveil various candidates who will participate in the august polls on his CCM party and will be flanked by the NASA co-principals. Organisers of the rally say Kipsigis elders will endorse Ruto&rsquo;s decision to ditch Jubilee. The governor will also use the ocassion to unveil his re-election strategy. The move by Ruto to join NASA has attracted criticism in the county.