The high number of independent candidates in the Rift Valley is reshaping the political landscape in the region ahead of the August 8 elections. Besides the independents, Jubilee Party nominees are also facing stiff competition from aspirants in Senator Gideon Moi&rsquo;s Kanu and Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto&rsquo;s Chama Cha Mashinani (CCM). Some of the counties where a bruising contest is expected are Nakuru, Bomet, Baringo, Kericho, Narok, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi and West Pokot. In Nakuru, at least 100 of the 891 aspirants who participated in the Jubilee primaries will be vying as independents. Governor Kinuthia Mbugua and former Nacada chairman, John Mututho, who lost the governorship contest to Lee Kinyanjui, will have a second chance as party-less candidates. The race is likely to get more complicated with the entry of CCM&rsquo;s Peter Koros and Senator James Mungai, another independent candidate. ALSO READ: Miguna Miguna picks 24-year-old for running mate Nominated Senator Paul Njoroge&rsquo;s name will also be on the ballot as a Kanu candidate. There is also a group of losers in the Jubilee primaries that has aligned itself to another from Mt Kenya region, creating a third force (independent caucus). But those who oppose them say they have demonstrated a high degree of unreliability. &ldquo;For the losers to issue ultimatums to the President and the party, it shows the desperation and confusion that has engulfed them after losing,&rdquo; said Mr Kinyanjui, the Nakuru governor nominee. Party concern The presence of independents in Kericho is also raising concern among Jubilee leadership and supporters. Ainamoi MP Benjamin Langat lost to Governor Paul Chepkwony in the race for the party&rsquo;s governorship ticket but beat a hasty retreat. His name will now be on the ballot paper as an independent, but for the parliamentary seat. In neighboring Bomet, the CCM party leader and independent candidates will give Jubilee a run for its money. Governor Ruto, who is also the CCM party leader, will fight it out with National Assembly Deputy Speaker Joyce Laboso of Jubilee, as a number of politicians whom he enticed with direct tickets square it out for various elective seats. Bomet East is leading with the largest number of independents with four aspirants raring to take on Jubilee&rsquo;s Beatrice Kones and CCM&rsquo;s Kevin Kipng&rsquo;etich. ALSO READ: Come on, let&rsquo;s face it, Jubilee&rsquo;s performance is but woeful Things will not be easy in Narok either where a number of losers in the primaries have gone independent. Those to go it alone include Agnes Pareiyo and Nelson Keshei in Narok North constituency. The two came second and third respectively behind lawyer Kaitikei Rotiken. Also in the race is the incumbent MP Moitalel Kenta (ODM). In Narok East, former Nakuru Finance Chief Officer Torome Kapay will be going it alone and will face off with ODM&rsquo;s Alfred Keriolale. In Uasin Gishu, Kanu has cleared 200 candidates to fight it out with Jubilee for various elective positions with the independence party targeting at least 50 seats. Governor Jackson Mandago will fight it out with Jubilee primaries loser Zedekiah Kiprop also known as &ldquo;Buzeki&rdquo; who will be vying as an independent and Kanu&rsquo;s Felix Butit. Turbo constituency will also be a place to watch as its the home constituency of DP William Ruto where Mr Kevin Okwara won the JP ticket. His closest rival in the nomination, Janet Sitienei, will again be in the race as an independent. Local preference ALSO READ: Come on, let&rsquo;s face it, Jubilee&rsquo;s performance is but woeful Should the electorate decide to vote in favour of a &ldquo;local&rdquo;, then it may complicate the race for Mr Okwara. &ldquo;The DP will work extra hard to ensure the JP candidate wins because the victory will also win him (Ruto) a national vote,&rdquo; said Phillip Chebunet, lecturer at the University of Eldoret. Uasin Gishu is turning out to be highly cosmopolitan and the victory of a Kenyan of Asian origin &ndash; Mr Swarup Mishra in Kesses parliamentary nominations proves this as he stands high chances of winning in&nbsp; August. In Nandi, Jubilee nominee and incumbent Senator Stephen Sang&rsquo; has a fight on his hands in the name of Nicholas Koech and Anderson Serem, both independent candidates. Elegeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen is also having sleepless nights trying to come up with a near perfect strategy to outwit former Inspector General of Police David Kimaiyo of Kanu. Governor Alex Tolgos is set to face Kanu&rsquo;s Absolom Momeon and Moses Changwony, an independent. The race for West Pokot will largely be between Governor Simon Kachapin of Jubilee and Senator John Lonyangapuo of Kanu.