The politicians had their say and the pickpockets had their day. Senior Opposition politicians Musalia Mudavadi, Moses Wetang&#39;ula and Richard Onyonka were left open-mouthed after discovering their mobile phones had been stolen Sunday. The robberies occurred as they escorted National Super Alliance (NASA) presidential flag bearer Raila Odinga to present his nomination papers at Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC). Their lose was made public when the master of ceremonies at KICC pleaded with the multitudes to return the pricey phones and even offered a &quot;small&quot; reward. But nobody took up the offer. This did not however dampen the spirit of thousands of Opposition supporters who went to Jacaranda grounds in Doonholm from KICC. ALSO READ: Mudavadi tells independent candidates to keep off The crooning of Hellena Ken as she sang her signature tune &quot;Ooooh, ni mwaka wa urejesho, ooooh mambo yabadilika...&quot; (this is the year of change and restoration) electrified&nbsp; the crowd. The song has become synonymous with NASA rallies. Pentagon team And when Ms Ken stepped onto the stage to usher in the Pentagon team with her now-famous song at 3:41pm, it was evident the crowd could not be controlled. Raila had to sneak in his trademark dance steps as his fellow co-principals joined in to signify that the &quot;journey to Canaan&quot; had officially begun. By this time, he had discarded his formal suit for a white shirt lined with the national colours of black, red and green, and wide-brimmed beige hat. Raila&#39;s clothes rhymed with his colleagues&#39;, who have adopted the dominant white and morning blue hues as the NASA colours. The leaders&#39; outfits were mimicked by thousands of supporters at the venue, all anxiously awaiting &quot;Joshua&#39;s delivery&quot;. ALSO READ: Mudavadi confirmed as NASA campaign supremo At one point, Raila tactfully brushed aside an aide who stepped forward with an umbrella to shield him from a light shower as he entertained the crowds with his hilarious commentating of the political football match pitting NASA against Jubilee Party. There were specks of Orange in the crowd, representing the strength of the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party, which Raila heads. Not even the torrential rains that had earlier ravaged the city for 13 minutes could stop the rally.