Yatta Member of Parliament Francis Mwangangi has hit out at Governor Alfred Mutua and Senator Johnstone Muthama, accusing them of instigating political divisions among the Kamba community. Addressing leaders at Kithimani town within his constituency, the MP claimed both Mutua and Muthama had proved through their actions and utterances that they did not have the interest of the Kamba community at heart. &ldquo;It is now very clear who the real betrayers of the community are. We are telling both Muthama and Mutua that it will not be business as usual anymore because they have demonstrated that they are only motivated in their own selfish interests,&rdquo; said Mwangangi. He cited recent development in the region&rsquo;s political affairs in which Senator Muthama fell out with Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka as an indication that the political unity of the community was in jeopardy. &ldquo;As a community we need to chart the way forward with or without Muthama because he had been the real obstacle to the unity of the Kamba nation. &quot;As leaders we shall ask voters to reject him because he has outlived his political usefulness in Ukambani,&rdquo; said Mwangangi. ALSO READ: Furore over Mutua's endorsement as kingpin Muthama, who had been a fierce supporter of Kalonzo took a political about-turn recently when he declared he will not offer his support to Wiper party anywhere in the country, accusing Kalonzo of &lsquo;promoting undemocratic principles&rsquo;. Wiper has since given a direct nomination to Jackson Kala to replace Muthama in the senatorial race. Mwangangi also scoffed at the recent crowning of Dr Mutua as the Kamba political kingpin and presidential candidate for 2022, terming the move as &lsquo;an exercise in futility.&rsquo; &ldquo;Mutua is absolutely far from becoming what he is imagining he can be. To be a kingpin, you have to be tested, tried and accepted by locals and your fellow leaders. But unfortunately, he (Mutua) thinks he can buy political success with money and deceit,&rdquo; charged Mwangangi. He said the governor had failed to deliver almost all the promises he made to the people of Machakos and urged residents to vote him out on August 8 General Election. But during a meet the people tour in Matungulu constituency, Mutua defended his development record and asked Machakos residents to re-elect him in the forthcoming election. &ldquo;My record speaks for itself and Machakos residents can see what I have delivered in my first term. Those opposed to me are the real enemies of the people because they are only envious of my development agenda for the people,&rdquo; said Mutua. ALSO READ: Wiper leaders extend olive branch to Muthama amid cracks in party