Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama appears to have reconciled with Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, barely a week after ditching the party and threatening to &quot;expose&quot; him. In a major reconciliatory gesture yesterday, Muthama delivered a message of peace saying he stands for Wiper and Kamba unity. He, however, expressed displeasure over the way party affairs were being handled. The fiery Senator said that he played a pivotal role in ensurng that Kalonzo secured the deputy president post in National Super Alliance (NASA) alignment although they were pushing for the presidency ticket. Muthama and Kalonzo shared a forum during the funeral of Alice Kivwea, mother to Senator David Musila, at AIC Migwani Primary School in Kitui County. &quot;I want to assure Kalonzo that he is the community&#39;s kingpin. No one can replace you at the moment. Do not listen to naysayers. All we ask of you is to take care of your elder children such as Musila and myself,&quot; Muthama said. Musila resigned as Wiper Chairman soon after losing the nomination to Governor Julius Malombe. He accused Kalonzo of interference ALSO READ: Post-election disputes and what they say about our democracy While describing Muthama as a &quot;great brother&quot;, Kalonzo said he harbours no hard feelings against either the Machakos Senator or Musila. He clarified that he never, in any way, interfered with nominations in Kitui and Machakos counties. The Wiper leader exuded confidence that the Opposition will dislodge Jubilee from power in the August polls and urged the electorate to stay vigilant and guard their votes. &quot;We should come out in large numbers and vote as if our life depends on it. That is the only way we will manage to liberate this country,&quot; Kalonzo said. Other leaders who attended the funeral were National Assembly Minority Leader Francis Nyenze, Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Junior, Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang&#39;ula and Nairobi Deputy Governor Jonathan Mueke. The leaders urged Muthama and Musila to return to the Wiper fold in order to help Kalonzo deliver the Kamba vote for NASA. &quot;I am happy to see Kalonzo seated in the same forum with Musila and Muthama. This shows unity which we need as a community,&quot; Nyenze said. At the same time, the leaders appealed to Internal Security Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery to stop intimidating the Opposition. Muthama said the Opposition will not accept the results of a stolen election. &quot;This time around, no vote will be stolen. The country is not ready for another stolen election,&quot; said Muthama. ALSO READ: Mike Sonko&rsquo;s endorsement by DP Ruto inconsequential, says Raila Mr Mueke appealed to the Kamba community to rally behind Kalonzo.&nbsp;