Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero has dismissed former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth&rsquo;s candidature for the city&rsquo;s top seat as inconsequential and no threat to his re-election. Kidero on Saturday said he is still the most suitable candidate for the position and, just like his other competitors, Kenneth stands no chance of clinching the seat. Kenneth on Friday announced he is vying for the seat as an independent candidate. He was floored by Senator Mike Sonko in the Jubilee primaries. Earlier this week, Sonko unveiled his running mate Polycarp Igathe, setting the stage for a bruising contest against Kidero and Kenneth. Grievances Kenneth said his re-entry into the race was informed by the &ldquo;shambolic manner&rdquo; in which Jubilee Party treated his grievances after he contested nomination results. ALSO READ: Peter Kenneth to run for Nairobi County as Independent He exuded confidence he would win the seat, saying now that he is not affiliated to any party, supporters of both JP and the National Super Alliance (NASA) will vote for him. However, Kidero, speaking at a church function yesterday, rubbished Kenneth&rsquo;s ambitions. &ldquo;But we welcome him. Kenneth is well on his way to becoming a Member of County Assembly,&rdquo; said Kidero. Beyond their comprehension The governor said even President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto&rsquo;s full support will not change the fate that awaits Sonko and Kenneth. &ldquo;Let them know that they will lose and this time it will be beyond their comprehension,&rdquo; said a confident Kidero. For three weeks after the highly contested JP primaries, Kenneth had appeared to be sidelined by Jubilee, with concentration shifting to Sonko whose running mate Igathe is said to have been handpicked by the party&rsquo;s top leadership. ALSO READ: Mike Sonko: This is what I will do for Nairobi city This might have played a role on his resignation from the party and declaration to run as an independent. Nairobi ODM chairman George Aladwa said NASA is determined to retain the city&rsquo;s governor position. No fear &ldquo;Of all the 85 wards, we should win over 60 so that we can control the County Assembly. Of the 17 constituencies, we should have 14. It will not be easy for Jubilee. Even if President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto throw their weight behind their candidates, we have no fear,&rdquo; said Aladwa. Kidero urged the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to give an assurance on ballot papers printing, following the nullification of the tender. &ldquo;IEBC should come out and assure Kenyans that come August 8, there will be no hiccups. There is basically no elections without ballot papers,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: Sonko picks Vivo Energy MD Polycarp Igathe as running mate