Nimwaka Yaa better known as Saumu (left) and Priscilla Ndanu, a new mother, who found relief after massage. (Photo: Willis Awandu, Standard) A moisturising gentle coconut oil massage was a holistic and relaxing experience in the last days of her pregnancy. Priscilla Ndanu Maina believes the maternal massage promoted her recovery from the fatigue, aches and pains that come with carrying a baby. The skilled touch by Nimwaka Yaa, fondly referred to as Saumu by relatives and clients, was her saving grace and today Ndanu shares the benefits of massage with mothers-to-be. Lack of sleep and irregular sleeping patterns, physical and emotional imbalance related to taking care of the baby are some of the overwhelming demands on a new mother. Known as mother roasting, massage is one of the services offered to mothers after giving birth. In cultures that observe it to the letter, it is a nurturing period that encourages healing by providing nourishment, warm daily drinks and hot oil massages. ALSO READ: This is the most dangerous time during childbirth This restorative technique that has massage as the main component eases swelling and sore muscles and further boosts the emotional health of the new mother. Comforting times For Ndanu, the soreness on her hands peaked at seven months into pregnancy and a friend recommended a massage. &ldquo;As the days to delivery drew closer, I preferred to sleep on the left side. This left me exhausted and even in the morning as I went to meet clients on appointments, I was already exhausted&rdquo; says Ndanu, a makeup artist. The massages were comforting and relaxing thus was able to deal with work demands, Ndanu says. There is a mixed school of thought on the benefits of massage during pregnancy. Imelda Masinde who is an experienced Doula and Lamaze childbirth expert warns that massages during pregnancy should be done with caution. &ldquo;It is crucial to get an expert because massaging some pressure points can trigger labour, earlier than expected,&rdquo; said Imelda who conducts childbirth classes. ALSO READ: Nurses, women say abuse during childbirth is justified When she delivered her son, Jabali, Ndanu took a two week break to recover from the demands that come with being a new mother before she was back to daily massages. Ndanu believes that healing herself is connected to taking care of her family, including her newborn son and from the within the confines of her home, Ndanu enrolled the services of Saumu for two weeks; two hour sessions every day. According to Ndanu, the daily massages pampered her and speeded her healing, both physically and psychologically. &ldquo;Giving birth is tiresome to the mind and body. Postnatal massages strike a balance between these two and leaves a feel-good effect,&rdquo; Ndanu said in an interview with The Metropolitan. Less pain It also helped me sleep better at night and to establish breastfeeding so we bonded better with my son, she added. Dr Tiffany Field from the University Of Miami School Of Medicine conducted research that concluded that massage therapy is effective during pregnancy. &ldquo;Women who received massage therapy reported decreased depression, anxiety, and leg and back pain,&rdquo; read excerpts of her research. In a study of labour pain, Dr Field also found out that women who received massage therapy experienced significantly less pain, and their labours were on average three hours shorter with less need for medication. Ndanu says that the massage sessions were her private moments to look after herself. &ldquo;The two-hour sessions gave me a window to relax, smile and snooze for a few minutes,&rdquo; she said. Saumu says that the postnatal massage is an entire package that fits within a social support structure where the family members work with the mother taking care of all her physical and emotional needs. &ldquo;The massage is a component where the mother has continuous presence of responsible family members who reassure her and praise her during the first 40 days after delivery,&rdquo; said Saumu. The massages are supposed to encourage her to be confident about herself and to stay in good shape to take care of her child, she added. Taking short walks &ldquo;On the first day, you can feel the tension and fatigue of the mother, but by the end of the sessions a fortnight later, she is usually relaxed and even ready to begin taking short walks within the compound,&rdquo; said Saumu. She grew up as an apprentice watching her aunties and cousins like Zakia Nzai Kombe perform massages on family members who had just delivered before she took up the in-house personalised massages. &ldquo;According to the Mijikenda culture, the first 40 days for a woman who has just given birth are reserved for her relaxation and nurturing the newborn,&rdquo; Saumu said. The writer is a health and medicine Editor at The Conversation Africa. [email&#160;protected]