Sharp differences have emerged in Wiper party in the aftermath of Senator Johnstone Muthama&#39;s decision to sever ties with party leader Kalonzo Musyoka. While a number of Wiper leaders led by Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr and Secretary General Hassan Omar preached reconciliation, party newcomers led by Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana and Machakos governor aspirant Wavinya Ndeti want action taken against Mr Muthama. Muthama revealed that they had prevailed on Prof Kibwana and Kitui&#39;s Julius Malombe not to hold a press conference to condemn Muthama&#39;s claims that the two were imposed. The senator on Monday accused Kalonzo of imposing candidates on voters in the controversial party nominations. Muthama cited unjust nominations for the governor&#39;s seat in Makueni for which Kibwana was granted a direct ticket and in Kitui where party chairman David Musila lost to the incumbent, Julius Malombe. Not happy ALSO READ: It's three-horse race for Machakos Senate seat as Muthama exits stage In Machakos, Muthama was not happy with Ms Ndeti&#39;s candidature for the governorship in which she will attempt to unseat Maendeleo Chap Chap candidate Governor Alfred Mutua. When the party met at Bomas of Kenya in Nairobi to present the nominees with certificates on Tuesday, Muthama&#39;s decision to sever links with Wiper and his subsequent promise to campaign for National Super Alliance presidential candidate Raila Odinga took centre stage. The differences have prompted a decision to hold a National Executive Committee meeting on Thursday to interrogate Muthama about whether he will defend his Machakos senatorial seat and also to take disciplinary action against him. Hide differences While Kalonzo called for unity in the party, his lieutenants did not hide their differences. &quot;It is not going to be easy between now and August. We must start the song to send Jubilee home. I don&#39;t know how to offend anyone. You should not have this habit of throwing insults at each other,&quot; Kalonzo said. Kilonzo Jr urgently called for a truce between the two leaders. ALSO READ: Kalonzo Musyoka Foundation sues NGO's board for freezing accounts &quot;Different views have emerged after the party primaries. Senator Muthama was not happy with the outcomes in Makueni, Machakos and Kitui. Our chairman, Musila was not happy in Kitui. He has decided to vie as an independent candidate,&quot; he said. Muthama, whose preferred candidate for the Machakos governor&#39;s seat, Bernard Kiala, lost in the Wiper primaries to Ndeti, insisted the former Kathiani MP should not have been allowed to participate in the party primaries in the first place. Meanwhile, Enoch Wambua, who is the Wiper nominee for the Kitui senatorial race, dismissed Muthama&#39;s move as inconsequential. &quot;The Kamba community is not in Wiper because of Muthama&#39;s membership. It is ridiculous that he left because his choice of candidate for Machakos governor lost miserably,&quot; said Mr Wambua, noting that leaders must learn to respect the will of the people. Wambua said although Muthama exercised his democratic right of association, chances are that he would face very turbulent times moving forward. But Machakos Jubilee Party governor aspirant Lemi Muia said Muthama&#39;s exit would leave Wiper weaker. [email&#160;protected] ALSO READ: Why angry Muthama dumped Kalonzo