As the dust settles on the bruising party primaries, the spotlight has turned on ODM Deputy Party Leader and Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, the National Super Alliance (NASA)&rsquo;s pointman at the Coast. With Joho&rsquo;s hand seen in the divisive ODM nominations, political observers say his preference for particular candidates could gift Jubilee, Wiper and Ford-Kenya in a key Orange party stronghold. Besides the defection of&nbsp; two governors to Jubilee&mdash; Kwale&rsquo;s Salim Mvurya and Tana River&rsquo;s Hussein Dado&nbsp;&mdash; the just-concluded nominations resulted in bitter a fallout among key leaders allied to the Opposition. In Lamu, the race for governorship now pits incumbent Issa Timamy, an Amani National Congress (ANC) leader, against ODM&rsquo;s Abdalla Fadhil. Joho&rsquo;s hand has been seen in the entry of Fadhil, complicating matters for Timamy who also has Jubilee&rsquo;s Fahim Twaha to battle with. In Taita Taveta, the push-and-pull surrounding the ODM ticket for the county&rsquo;s governorship has led to protests. In the nominations, Wundanyi MP Thomas Mwadeghu beat Governor John Mruttu by 17,557 votes to the incumbent&rsquo;s 14,817. Mwadeghu is yet to receive the nominations certificate, even after Mruttu was cleared to vie as an independent candidate. It is widely believed that Joho supported his ally Mruttu. ALSO READ: Garissa Women Rep Facebook account hacked Bitter divisions In Malindi parliamentary nominations, observers say Kilifi MP Aisha Jumwa&rsquo;s win against MP Willy Mtengo has caused a strain between the region&rsquo;s leaders. Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi and Senator Stewart Madzayo backed Mr Mtengo while Joho backed Jumwa. So bitter is the fallout at the Coast that Joho recently held a lengthy meeting with a delegation from Kwale County to mend the sharp divisions. &ldquo;We asked Governor Joho to listen to both sides in Kwale and to consult with us,&rdquo; said chairman of the National Councils of Imams and Islamic scholar Sheikh Hamisi Banda. The divisions in Kwale stemmed from the bitter contest between Dr Issa Chipera and Kwale County Assembly Speaker Sammy Ruwa in which the former won but his nomination certificate was recalled. The certificate was finally handed to him following days of protests. Maimuna Mwidau, a political analyst, believes the rift between NASA candidates and parties at the Coast is bound to widen.&nbsp; However, NASA has begun to mend rifts in the coalition.