Members of Amani National Congress (ANC) have launched a spirited campaign to lock out ODM party candidates out of Western. The rebellion and resentment may spell doom for National Super Alliance (NASA). The party regional coordinator David Mejja Malala has joined Lugari MP Ayub Savula and Enock Kibunguchi (Likuyani) and urged NASA leaders to zone Western and bar ODM from fielding candidates. &ldquo;ODM must be ready to sacrifice and let other parties within the coalition sponsor candidates for other&nbsp;all five elective positions of governor, senator, MP, women rep and MCA in Bungoma and Kakamega counties,&rdquo; says Savula. The MP argues that it would be unfair for ODM to compete with ANC and Ford-K when they have produced a presidential candidate. &ldquo;We need to have MPs from other parties to keep the coalition on toes if at all NASA wins in the August 8 elections. It is not possible for them to take everything at the expense of other political outfits,&rdquo; he says. Earlier, Malala had maintained that ANC was prepared for a bruising battle with ODM and Ford-K despite all being affiliate parties in NASA. ALSO READ: Crack the whip on cartels, Atwoli tells Uhuru Intra-party rivalry &ldquo;We are determined to win as many elective posts as possible across Western to make ANC a strong outfit going forward,&rdquo; he told Journalists in Kakamega. Political analyst Martin Andati has also weighed in on the matter and warned that intra-party rivalry could cost NASA dearly in the vote rich Western. &ldquo;It could work in favour of Jubilee, which pollsters indicate have at least 30 per cent support against NASA&rsquo;s 58 per cent,&rdquo; he said. Savula has, however, maintained that ODM should consider fielding candidates in Nyanza where the party is more popular. &ldquo;This arrangement will guarantee NASA total support from the people of Western where ANC and Ford-K have a huge backing,&rdquo; he observed. Kibunguchi said ODM must get contented with the flag bearer position that went to Raila.&nbsp; &ldquo;ANC, Ford-K, Wiper and CCM had to sacrifice. It is high time ODM reciprocated the gesture,&rdquo; said the lawmaker. Similar sentiments were echoed by Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale who urged locals to back NASA presidential flag bearer Raila Odinga, but elect Ford-K candidates in remaining positions. ALSO READ: Raila: No apology on my 10 million vote slogan Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has, however, repeatedly said that ODM will win a majority of elective seats in Kakamega and by extension Western Kenya.&nbsp;