Political stakes in Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s North Rift backyard have gone up as aspirants who lost in the Jubilee Party primaries opt to vie as independents. Political analysts admit that the region will once again experience more bruising battles following the fallout from the Jubilee nominations. &ldquo;The campaigns this time will be do-or-die for Jubilee Party nominees and they must not rest on their laurels because they may be trounced. There is a general belief that the nominations were highly manipulated,&rdquo; said Festus Biwott, a political analyst in the region. Leading the pack is Uasin Gishu governor aspirant Zedekiah Bundotich, popularly known as Buzeki, who will battle it out with incumbent Jackson Mandago. Cut-throat campaigns In the run-up to the Jubilee nominations, the duo launched cut-throat campaigns that almost degenerated into a clash between their supporters. ALSO READ: Independent candidates in rush to beat IEBC deadline In Trans Nzoia County, Cherangany MP Wesley Korir will again square it out with Uhuru&rsquo;s political advisor, Joshua Kutuny, who won the party primaries. Mr Korir will run as an independent candidate after losing in the Jubilee nominations. However, the Boston Marathon champion said he was not satisfied with the results. In Elgeyo Marakwet, several aspirants including Keiyo South MP Jackson Kiptanui are mulling over the option of running as independent candidates. Mr Kiptanui will go for the governorship after losing to incumbent Alex Tolgos. In Nandi County, engineer Anderson Serem and architect Nicholas Koech have already announced their candidature for the governor&rsquo;s seat as independents and are already busy on the campaign trail. &ldquo;After serious deliberation, I have decided to carry all the Nandi County hopes for development to the ballot as an independent candidate for the post of governor in the August elections,&rdquo; said Mr Serem. Uhuru re-election Mr Koech said his campaign team was already on the ground, stating that he would also wrestle for the governorship independently. ALSO READ: Opinion: Did Kalonzo miss the bigger picture in NASA leadership deal? &ldquo;The electorate will not get a chance to vote in an individual they prefer because one may be imposed by a political party. I will market my manifesto as I seek votes and also support the re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy Ruto,&rdquo; said Koech. Hundreds of youths are also using independent tickets in their pursuit for Member of the County Assembly seats.