For Cindy, Abbie, Marcus, and any other campus student you think of, the ultimate food for them is the readily available, delicious and affordable Indomie instant noodles. Selling at only Sh30 in the tuck shop next to the hostel and with minimum effort required to prepare a meal, Indomie instant noodles is enough to keep them going for months. The story is the same in households where young children are crying out to their mothers, &lsquo;I want Indomie!&rsquo; For them, the slogan &lsquo;Yum yum&rsquo; is synonymous with Indomie noodles. Had it been their choice, they would eat it any time-day and night. For young mothers, this is the easiest healthy snack for their children. But this was not the picture on the ground 5 years ago. It has been a journey-a long journey to convert Ugali, Wali, and Chapati consumers into noodles consumers. Just a few years ago, noodles were considered a foreign food to many Kenyans. Only a few affluent individuals could afford it. The common mwananchi could hardly afford to think about buying instant noodles for themselves or their family. Fortunately, this changed when Salim Wazaran Kenya Limited set up their Mombasa Noodle Factory on Malindi highway in Kikambala, Kilifi County. This USD 10 million factory is currently serving the noodle consumption needs of Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, and Rwanda. Employing about 95 % Kenyan youth in their factory. Salim Wazaran Kenya Limited attests to the faith and willingness to invest in the evident revolution of Kenyan culinary tastes and preferences. In Kenya, Indomie is the market leader in the noodles category with a share of shelf of 80%. Be that as it may, noodle consumption in Kenya is still relatively very low compared to countries such as Nigeria, which is producing over 3 million packs per day. This opportunely, is work in progress, with a view of having Indomie noodles on the table in every household. Among the company&rsquo;s efforts and vision, is to see affordable meals for each family in Kenya. These meals should be readily available, affordable, and desirable to the Kenyan palate. In line with this, Indomie is sponsoring a lot of school activities countrywide. This is a thoughtful approach in aligning business with social responsibility. Try Indomie today!