The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) has said if two aspirants for the same position from the same party present nomination papers, neither one will be cleared to run. The commission gave the directive against the backdrop of the confusion arising from disputed party nominations that prompted many legal battles. In some instances, parties are yet to enforce rulings. Commission chairman Wafula Chebukati clarified that only aspirants cleared by their parties, the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal (PPDT) and the High Court would be issued with nomination certificates. &quot;Our returning officers countrywide are clearing candidates with adherence to the law and will only clear an aspirant if the political party executes the order of the tribunal nullifying the certificate originally issued to an aspirant and issues another certificate as per the ruling of the court; or an aspirant presents an order from the High Court compelling the party to comply with the PPDT order and has been issued with a nomination certificate by the same party,&quot; said Mr Chebukati. Nomination certificate He added that where PPDT issued a ruling nullifying a nomination certificate of certain political party aspirants, the political party in that instance was supposed to implement the ruling by issuing a certificate according to the ruling. ALSO READ: Kenya to hire 290 constituency election monitors &quot;In instances where two aspirants present themselves from the same party; one presenting a nomination certificate while another presenting an order from PPDT, neither aspirant will be cleared,&quot; the chairman said. This might see some politicians locked out of the race as there are those who were declared winners by their parties while their competitors form the same parties also declared themselves winners. There are those who filed complaints with their parties, the PPDT and the High Court but the tribunal&#39;s recommendations were never implemented. The nomination process continued for the second day yesterday. President Uhuru Kenyatta, the Jubilee Party presidential nominee, yesterday held a series of rallies in Nairobi before presenting his papers to the IEBC. He was accompanied by his running mate Deputy President William Ruto and Mike Mbuvi Sonko, the party&#39;s governor candidate. Sunday saw presidential candidates Raila Odinga, Ekuru Aukot and Abduba Dida cleared. ALSO READ: Jubilee and Nasa supporters clash outside KICC, Nairobi