President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto&rsquo;s re-election bid begins to take shape today when they will be formally nominated by the Jubilee Party as the outfit&rsquo;s flagbearers for the August 8 General Election. Uhuru is expected to receive the Jubilee certificate as the nominated presidential candidate during a National&nbsp;Delegates&nbsp;Convention (NDC) to be held at Bomas of Kenya on Saturday. Sources told Saturday Standard that Uhuru will also be endorsed by other political parties supporting his bid, including former ruling party Kanu, which has invited its&nbsp;delegates&nbsp;for the NDC at Kasarani today. The President could end up shuttling from one venue to another, in whirlwind political activities within the city, as five other parties are expected to endorse him as their candidate for the presidency. West Pokot Senator John Lonyangapuo confirmed that Kanu&rsquo;s main agenda will be the endorsement of Uhuru as their presidential candidate. Acceptance speech &ldquo;We expect that the President will be attending our NDC. When you are endorsing someone, he has to be in attendance in person to make an acceptance speech,&rdquo; said Lonyangapuo. ALSO READ: Before their victory dance, NASA must be wary of bumps ahead While Kanu, under the chairmanship of Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, will be expected to endorse Uhuru during their NDC to be held at Moi Sports Centre in Kasarani, Maendeleo Chap Chap, associated with Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua will be declaring its support for the President when they meet at the party&rsquo;s Lavington offices. Similar events will be held by Martha Karua&rsquo;s Narc Kenya, whose&nbsp;delegates&nbsp;will be meeting at St Andrews Hall. The Kenya Patriotic Party will be at Boma Hotel while the Economic Freedom Party&rsquo;s&nbsp;delegates&nbsp;will be at Nyayo Stadium. All affiliate parties said the President will make brief a appearance at their NDC where members will endorse him. State House could, however, not confirm the same. &ldquo;We are not certain if the President will go to all the venues to acknowledge the endorsement, but certainly he will visit some before heading to Bomas,&rdquo; said a source at State House. Jubilee Party Secretary General Raphael Tuju said the NDC will mark the beginning of the &ldquo;healing process&rdquo; after the divisions witnessed from the just concluded party nominations. &ldquo;We have casualties from the rigorous nominations and after that, we feel it is good to bring everybody on board now. So we will use this forum as the start of the healing process,&rdquo; he said. With polls coming in three months, there will be heightened political activities as players hit the campaign trail. ALSO READ: In pursuit of power NASA must make the people feel they too belong