This year&rsquo;s Labour Day celebrations were yesterday marked amid gloom among workers in different sectors.&nbsp; In Kericho, tea pluckers are planning a strike to force tea companies stop mechanisation of the industry. Speaking during the celebrations held at the Kericho Green stadium, Kericho Kenya Plantation and Agricultural Workers Union (KPAWU) branch Executive Secretary Dickson Sang and chairman Joseph Matati decried the increased use of tea-harvesting shears. &ldquo;The day tea pluckers dreaded the most has finally come. We are in the process of writing to the Secretary General of the Central Organisation of Trade Unions (COTU) Francis Atwoli to issue a 28-day notice to the multinational tea companies to withdraw the machines failure to which tea workers will go on strike,&rdquo; said Sang. During the function attended by Kericho Deputy Governor Susan Kikwai who represented Governor Paul Chepkwony, Sang said tea companies pay Sh6 per kilogramme of harvested tea, which means they pay Sh480 a day to a farm worker. &ldquo;That means multinational tea companies will continue exploiting tea workers by paying them meagre salaries. Plans are also underway to employ more casual workers to handle tea-harvesting machines,&rdquo; said Sang. ALSO READ: Opinion: We should not jeopardise enterprises Green leaf&nbsp; He said the companies had complicated the matter further by demanding that the quality of green leaf harvested using the machines must be the same as those picked by hand. In a speech read on his behalf by Ms Kikwai, Mr Chepkwony said his administration had hired 239 casuals inherited from the defunct local authorities and absorbed 101 staff members under the Economic Stimulus Programme (ESP). Across in Naivasha, trade unionists expressed concern over the high number of flower workers that had lost their jobs in the past two years. According to statistics from the Kenya Plantations and Agricultural Workers Union (KPAWU), over 5,000 workers have been sacked or declared redundant. There are fears the numbers could rise in the coming months as farmers complained of harsh economic times coupled with a poor market in the EU. Karuturi Flower firm closed its doors last year and sent home over 2,500 workers after it was placed under receivership over accrued debt. ALSO READ: Improve remuneration and work environment for the Kenyan worker And as the workers were trying to come to terms with the closure, the leading and oldest farm Oserian Ltd sent home over 400 workers. The farm attributed the laying off of workers to poor markets in the EU and the high cost of production in the last couple of years where prices have remained the same. Last month, over 500 workers from Kongoni River Farm (Star division), owned by Veg-Pro Ltd, were sent home in unclear circumstances. According to Ferdinand Juma, the KPAWU secretary-general Naivasha branch, the move has raised anxiety among the workers. Juma said tens of workers from other smaller farms had in the period lost their jobs with their employers pointing to the high cost of production. &ldquo;There is a crisis in the flower farms and we are calling on the national government to address the issues raised by the farmers so as to save thousands of jobs,&rdquo; Juma said. He noted that the fate of Karuturi workers had not been resolved one year after the farm that at one time produced over six million stems of roses per day was put under receivership. &ldquo;Some of the workers have died before receiving their dues. The local hospital has been closed down and the fate of the nearby schools hangs in the balance,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: Uhuru announces 18 per cent rise in minimum wage Labour regulations&nbsp; In Uasin Gishu county, labour officials decried low levels of compliance to law by employers saying they will conduct a major crackdown to prosecute those flouting labour regulations. Speaking during the Labour Day celebrations that were poorly attended at 64 Stadium in Eldoret, Joyceline Mmaisi, a Labour Officer, said supermarket and private security firm owners are the most &lsquo;uncooperative entities&rsquo;. &ldquo;It is sad that these employers are even barring their employees from joining workers&rsquo; unions because they want to continue oppressing them. We will not tolerate such individuals and we will be working with government administration to enforce the laws,&rdquo; said Mmaisi. Mmaisi urged employees who have been stomped from joining unions to report at their offices. He said most employers are also denying workers basic benefits like health cover. Peter Odima, &nbsp;COTU Secretary, Uasin Gishu Branch, lauded the judiciary for establishing a Labour and Industrial Court in Eldoret saying it will help fast track resolution of labour disputes in the region. John Kinjo, Deputy County Commissioner Turbo sub-county asked employers and employees to consider Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR). ALSO READ: Uhuru urges private sector to give workers pay rise