Kenya Airways (KQ) and Kenya Tourism Board (KTB) have inked a partnership aiming to market the destination to attract more visitors especially from emerging and key source markets to Kenya. The partnership inked on Saturday entails a global marketing collaboration between KQ and KTB that targets, for the first time, a broad spectrum of leisure and business visitors in various markets especially in Africa. Kenya Tourism Board Managing Director Betty Radier said most of the consumers already have a strong brand affinity to both KQ and KTB, and would be able to easily relate to joint marketing initiatives and products. &quot;We seek to drive our tourism development to the next level by leveraging on each other&#39;s consumer and trade insights to ensure that travellers have a more in-depth Kenyan experience that meets their needs and wants,&quot; said Radier. Beyond branding the plane, KTB will also brand the aircraft headrests driving brand visibility across all markets the aircraft operates. The partners will also be jointly investing in the co-development of new products by sharing ideas, knowledge and resources. ALSO READ: 20 coast hotels shut operations due to low season The partnership comes at a time the tourism sector has recorded remarkable recovery benefiting from aggressive marketing in the domestic and international markets. According to the 2017 Economic Survey the sector&#39;s earnings increased by 17.8 percent to 997 million U.S. dollars in 2016, compared to 846 million dollars the previous year. Both KTB and KQ also unveiled the Magical Kenya branding one of the airline&#39;s Dreamliner, Boeing 787, in Embakasi. The aircraft mainly ply&#39;s the carriers European, Asian and some African routes. Kenya Airways CEO Mbuvi Ngunze said the partnership with KTB continues to expand the scope of collaboration reflecting their long-term commitment to further promote a flourishing and vibrant tourism industry in Kenya. &quot;Working closely with KTB as our partners is critical to amplifying Kenya&#39;s tourism development and attract more quality visitors,&quot; said Ngunze. He said partnership underscores the importance of the airline in creating linkage between Kenya and the world thus growing the country&#39;s economy, especially the tourism sector.&quot; Kenya Airways continues with its expansion in Africa and will in May launch its 54th destination to Victoria Falls, in Zimbabwe. ALSO READ: Is Kenya losing her grip on tourism to her neighbours?