Joseph Nkaissery baffles me, a lot. I bet he baffles many people. It is not difficult to fathom how he embarrasses people close to him. The other day he insulted the basic intelligence of Kenyans when he yelled his latest gag order against NASA. Useless order. Seething with anger I saw the man seething with anger because NASA has expressed an interest and commitment to galvanise more than 10 million voters across Kenya to win the August election. To begin with, there will be a General Election in Kenya on August 8. So NASA is not plotting a coup. Secondly, elections are won by the party that bags more votes in a competitive, free, fair and predictable elections. And that is why 10 million plus votes is a very realistic figure for NASA to win the election and liberate our nation from the grip of a clueless and disengaged leadership. ALSO READ: Kiraitu Murungi, Peter Munya in running mate game plan According to Nkaissery&rsquo;s warped wisdom, this narrative is a threat to national security. Really? In fact, I think NASA principals are being rather conservative with this figure. The suffering masses in this country want change. And they want it not later than August 8. Gnashing of teeth On the morning of August 9, there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth as results of the General Election begin to trickle in. Kenya is experiencing a reloaded 2002 moment. No one, least of all Nkaissery, can stand in the way of this change. And if you think I am lying, ask Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka. Communities, regions and interest groups across Kenya are active members of a growing army marching towards the third liberation of our republic. Agents of a Government that has lost genuine interest in feeding and securing its people have no moral authority to lecture anyone on anything. For the avoidance of doubt, the mission to mobilise 10 million plus voters to crush Jubilee on the ballot is real and right on course. Instead of Nkaissery shouting at us about our target numbers, he could be more useful to his masters by advising them to prepare to hand over power after the elections. ALSO READ: Non-party aspirants worry Jubilee winners Provide security The other day I overheard a conversation to the effect that some boardroom chaps have promised to deliver a lot of votes to Jubilee. The days when elections were won or lost in boardrooms are way behind us. The real battle will take place on the trenches; in villages and townships across Kenya. If Nkaissery is keen on salvaging his image, he should be busy making arrangements to provide security to every Kenyan in every corner of this country during the campaign period and as they go out to vote. Let us put this show on the road.