President Uhuru Kenyatta has said the Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) will continue to be part of the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM). The President further proposed that AMISOM, an active regional peacekeeping mission operated by the African Union (AU) with the approval of the United Nations in Somalia, be transformed into a UN Peace Keeping Mission. Uhuru, who is attending a regional leaders&rsquo; meeting to discuss Somalia&rsquo;s security progress in London, called for a joint effort to ensure a peaceful and stable Horn of Africa. The London conference brings together heads of state and governments from across East Africa and other key partners, alongside senior figures from international organisations to take stock of security efforts in Somalia. It will focus on accelerating the progress of security reforms in Somalia, build on the international response to the ongoing drought and humanitarian crisis, and agree on the new international partnership needed to keep the Horn of Africa nation on course for increased peace and prosperity. &ldquo;Exiting Somalia is a security threat to the stability of Kenya and her neighbours. It will create a vacuum in terms of security interventions. Our position is to support Somalia and we shall remain at the centre in this effort,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: A stable Somalia key for regional peace He said AMISOM entered Somalia as neighbours interested in addressing the security situation and by extension, protecting the civilians. &ldquo;Our ultimate objective is to ensure the country&rsquo;s security is guaranteed. We cannot exit without accomplishing our goal of bringing stability and have a secure nation,&rdquo; he said. The President spoke to journalists on Tuesday evening at State House ahead of his departure for London. He promised to lobby players at the London conference to support the formation of the UN Peace Keeping Mission. Meanwhile, President Kenyatta yesterday met Egyptian President Abdel Fattah Al-Sisi as part of his campaign to bolster trade, immigration and security cooperation with the Northern Africa powerhouse. President Al-Sisi hosted the meeting at Cairo International Airport. Refuelling stop ALSO READ: President Uhuru signs Movable Property Security Rights Bill into law President Kenyatta was in the Egyptian capital for a refuelling stop on his way to the United Kingdom for the third London Conference on Somalia, which he will attend today. The Cairo Summit is among a host of meetings President Kenyatta will hold with global leaders during a frenetic schedule of engagement in the month of May to promote Kenya&rsquo;s investment credentials, improve intra-African trade cooperation and seek partnerships. President Al-Sisi paid a State visit to Kenya earlier in the year during which the two leaders reviewed progress in implementing a host of measures they agreed on, including fighting terrorism, security cooperation, and expanding Kenyan exports to Egypt, especially for tea and flowers. The leaders also discussed cooperation on immigration. Kenya has also asked Egypt to consider visa waiver for official passport holders as well as public servants travelling on official duties. President Kenyatta is pressing Egypt for the removal of visa requirement between the two countries to allow free movement of people to boost trade relations. On Tuesday, President Kenyatta met Benin President Patrice Talon at State House, Nairobi. The two leaders discussed expanding Kenyan exports to the West African nation, the possibility of Kenya Airways - under the open skies policy - exploring short haul flights from Cotonou into West Africa, and support for capacity building for the Benin public service. ALSO READ: Athletics: Obiri stars at KDF meeting President Talon is in Kenya to lobby for the Benin capital Cotonou to host the African Trade Insurance Agency&rsquo;s regional office for West Africa. [email&#160;protected]