Opposition chief Raila Odinga has termed Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s endorsement of Senator Mike Sonko for the Nairobi governor&rsquo;s seat as inconsequential. Raila, instead, accused the national government of failing to remit more than Sh50 billion it owes the city county for development projects. &ldquo;We will make sure that Jubilee does not win in Nairobi. County governments have not done much because a lot of money has been retained at the national level,&rdquo; said Raila. Earlier in the day, Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero branded Sonko&rsquo;s choice of running mate Polycarp Igathe as &ldquo;a project&rdquo;. Dr Kidero said the Jubilee Government was desperate to wrest the governorship from the Opposition. He said Sonko was &lsquo;forced&rsquo; by Jubilee to the top leadership to pick project Igathe. ALSO READ: Post-election disputes and what they say about our democracy Kidero told Sonko to brace for a gruesome campaign. &ldquo;I am sure Nairobians will give us another chance to finish our projects,&rdquo; said Kidero. He said the Opposition outfit would deliver 1.5 million votes out of the city&rsquo;s 2.3 million in the city to Raila. &ldquo;Kidero team is determined to deliver 13 parliamentary and 53 Member of County Assembly seats and a majority of the 2.3 million votes to NASA,&rdquo; said the governor. The governor said the county had signed deals worth Sh600 billion for the first first phase of Nairobi county government urban renewal and other development projects. Speaking after meeting African Inland Church bishops and pastors at AIC Milimani, Kidero confirmed signing contracts of 7,000 projects signalling massive demolition of old estates to pave way for highrise buildings that can accommodate more residents. Bishop Abraham Mulwa announced the church will launch a campaign to urge the electorate to observe peace during and after election. ALSO READ: IEBC sets timelines for presidential candidates to submit papers Mulwa told Kidero to campaign in other churches as AIC had already endorsed his re-election bid.&nbsp;