&ldquo;The ability to foretell what is going to happen tomorrow, next week, next month and next year,&rdquo; said former British Prime Minister Winston Churchill, &ldquo;and to have the ability afterwards to explain why it didn&rsquo;t happen,&rdquo; makes for a politician. As the August elections draw near, we are increasingly being confronted by two stark options; to choose between an incumbent devoid of the sense of accomplishment and a woefully incompetent Opposition that is plainly na&iuml;ve and bereft of ideas. In fact, when one listens to the discordant NASA luminaries, you feel a grating lack of style and substance. Like a broken record, they have been saying the same things all over again and expecting different results. And more worrying, they, like the Rainbow Coalition in 2003, lack the method of what to do with power should they win. Remember the chaos that beset Narc? And before NASA, CORD seemed stuck in a time warp. They had waited for the hand of God to strike after losing self-belief in the aftermath of the electoral loss. That hand of God has not swung their way. Simply put, they lack the plot to unseat Jubilee beyond the rhetoric in political rallies. The embarrassed silence from the Opposition as Jubilee stumbles from one crisis to another is shameful. Tracing backwards; the arc of UhuRuto&rsquo;s 2013 candidacy was a mix of daredevil conviction and political chicanery. They ran despite crimes against humanity cases at the ICC weighing heavily against them and being youthful, they had been dismissed as political greenhorns with little to show. ALSO READ: Why Oburu Oginga quit quest for key EAC job When Mr Kenyatta and his running mate spoke, one was accosted by a sense of exaggerated hope and ambition. All seemed easy and possible. Fast forward to 2017: All that high-sounding talk about &ldquo;a double-digit economic growth&rdquo; and&nbsp;kusema na kutenda&nbsp;(saying and doing)&rdquo; wilts in the face of current realities. The delusion that any Government spending is productive is being tested with nearly Sh1 trillion sunk into SGR, energy and other infrastructural mega-projects. The borrowing frenzy triggered to finance these projects has never been seen before. When the newly-elected President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto unveiled their Cabinet four years ago, foe and friend admired their finesse, their style. With their white, folded shirts and matching red ties, the duo were turning a new page on how Government departments would run. The announcement smacked of the sleek PR machine that turned around the message in the run-up to the election; it was heavy with suspense and mystery. Yet with only three months to an election, the UhuRuto duo is painstakingly looking for the approbation for all they have done. The Jubilee swansong is no longer playing. The drums stopped beating and the dance floor is emptying, fast. The political capital they gained after appointing a lean, technocrat-filled Cabinet has largely been wasted in the face of scandals (NYS and Ministry of Health). The cost of living has continued to rise with the vulnerable suffering the most. A little facts might help: the economy expanded by 2.5 per cent in Mwai Kibaki&rsquo;s first year in 2003. In 2013, the economy grew by a mere 0.1 per cent from 4.6 per cent to 4.7 per cent. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has projected the economy to grow by 5.8 per cent this year. Cumulatively, the economy has not grown by more than 2 percentage points since 2013. Mr Kibaki&rsquo;s grew by between 7-8 percentages points before the ignominious 2007/08 post-election violence. In other words, there is little to show for the bold reforms promised at the campaign. The spine to tackle age-old political mischief that has held back the promise of Kenya for far too long has been lacking. ALSO READ: State moves to woo more women into politics The Government is still plagued by mind-boggling corruption, red tape and inefficiency (How will they explain away the withdrawal of Sh45 billion from the Ministry of Health?). Or the bloated Civil Service that delivers little or nothing? The stakes were so high for UhuRuto in 2013 that to think they have squandered the opportunity is disappointing. Do they have in them what Sir Winston conjured 70 years ago? Mr Kipkemboi is The Standard&rsquo;s OpEd Editor [email&#160;protected] &nbsp;