Gloves are off in Kirinyaga as two women battle it out for the governor&rsquo;s seat. With Jubilee Party primaries done and Anne Waiguru picking the coveted ticket, line ups have been drawn as she seeks to fight it out with Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua, incumbent Governor Joseph Ndathi and Deputy Governor Reuben Ndegwa. Ndathi is defending his seat as an independent candidate, while Ndegwa has the Democratic Party ticket after falling out with his boss. The battle is already taking an interesting shape, with Karua picking Waiguru&rsquo;s runner up in the Jubilee contest, Kirinyaga Central MP Gitari Gachoki, as her running mate. Karua&rsquo;s move to team up with Gitari follows his impressive show at the Jubilee nomination where he garnered 46,678 votes. The county is made up of four constituencies &ndash; Mwea, Gichugu, Kirinyaga Central and Ndia. Of these, Mwea is the largest and most populous. ALSO READ: Lawyer triumphs in repeat primaries for Narok North By forming a coalition with Kirinyaga Central MP, Karua hopes to attract votes from Ndia. The Narc Kenya leader, Waiguru and Ndathi all come from Gichugu. The move could also soften her rough edges and help shake off the tag of being sympathetic to the Opposition. Narc Kenya endorsed President Uhuru Kenyatta for re-election. The period since the nominations has been spent forging new alliances which, if present voting patterns are considered, could tilt the race. Ndathi is now shopping for a new running mate. While the governor contested the outcome of the nomination, Ndegwa silently dropped out of the ticket and declared his own bid on DP. In 2013, Ndathi settled on Julius Njiiri as his running mate, but when they fell out he went for Ndegwa who hails from Mwea. Waiguru too obeyed the trend in settling for Peter Ndambiri in a bid to attract the populous votes. Gachoka said despite contributing enormously to Ndathi&rsquo;s election in 2013, Mwea had nothing to show for it. &ldquo;Mwea people know that having their own as deputy governor is not enough assurance. They will need a government ready to invest in their welfare and development,&rdquo; said Gachoka. However, Gachoka and Karua are promising a more inclusive and Mwea-friendlier administration. ALSO READ: Daggers drawn in Rift as rivals stick on for governor races The two are planning a charm offensive in Mwea region, including pledging to appoint Mwea natives to 40 per cent of county jobs and allocating a huge chunk of development funds and bursaries to the constituency. Among the issues that are top of their priority is pushing for the issuance of title deeds to land owners in South Ngariama. &ldquo;Martha (Karua) championed the project when she was MP and I was the surveyor. Years later and the people have yet to get title deeds,&rdquo; said Gachoka. Inconsequential But Ndambiri, who is Waiguru&rsquo;s running mate, believes that the Karua-Gachoka alliance will not deter their bid and dismissed Ndegwa as inconsequential in the run up to the August 8 polls. &ldquo;Their union plays to our advantage. They have totally disregarded the impact Mwea can have on the race. How will they convince voters in Mwea to vote for them?&rdquo; Ndambiri scoffed. He said Ndegwa was not popular in Mwea and could not secure enough votes to dent their bid. ALSO READ: Daggers drawn in Rift as rivals stick on for governor races Regardless of Waiguru running on the mainstream JP, Gachoka&rsquo;s re-entry into the race, coupled by Ndathi&rsquo;s decision to vie as an independent and the entry of Ndegwa as a fourth contestant has increased the stakes and complicated the equation for Waiguru. Karua and Gitari have between them close to three decades of experience in elective politics.