Deputy President William Ruto has pledged quick action to address woes of the troubled Mumias Sugar Company. The DP Saturday expressed disappointment that the government&rsquo;s previous bailout had been unsuccessful because of incompetent management. &ldquo;The management at Mumias has for years been the impediment. We have pumped immense resources and cash that unfortunately did not benefit or reach the farmers as intended. Those responsible should go home,&rsquo;&rsquo; he warned. The Deputy President asked Board chairman Kennedy Mulwa to move with speed and effect restructuring at management level and claimed that some managers, who have been at the helm for decades had perfected the act of misappropriating funds. &ldquo;It cannot be business as usual for managers who have deep roots at the helm. It is high time we address the real monster at Mumias and help farmers. The government efforts to help cane farmers who toil daily to improve their livelihoods cannot be derailed by few individuals,&rsquo;&rsquo; he said. The DP assured cane farmers that the government will not import sugar without a proper plan as its keen on protecting them. &ldquo;The government cannot import sugar recklessly because we have to protect our cane farmers,&rsquo;&rsquo; said Ruto. Teso South MP Mary Emase and Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali supported Ruto&rsquo;s sentiments, saying corrupt managers should not oversee running of MSC. ALSO READ: Sony Sugar picks acting MD with hopes of turnaround The two legislators said farmers are yet to be paid their dues for almost two years even after the government allocated billions to MSC. &ldquo;It is unfortunate that managers can go ahead and frustrate government efforts to uplift the lives of cane farmers. Farmers who supplied cane last year have not been paid. This must be addressed,&rsquo;&rsquo; said Emase. For the last two years, the government has injected Sh3.1 billion at MSC in attempts to revive it. The money was meant to clear farmers&rsquo; debts and procure new equipment for the company. However, the company has requested Treasury for additional Sh3.41 billion to clear the outstanding debts. Mumias Sugar is the country&rsquo;s biggest miller. It began experiencing financial problems in 2009. The DP used the opportunity to drum up support for the Jubilee administration and asked Western Kenya residents to vote for them in August polls because they had fulfilled their development pledges. Ruto also held a brief meeting with Wanga Elders at Mumias Cultural Centre and issued certificates to Jubilee Party aspirants in county. Other leaders who accompanied him were MPs Emmanuel Wangwe, former Lurambi MP Manyala Keya, Mable Muruli (Kakamega gubernatorial aspirant) Stanley Livondo (senatorial aspirant) and Rashid Mohammed (Mumias West parliamentary aspirant). ALSO READ: DP Ruto: Jubilee to win in August Election with a landslide The Deputy President addressed the public at Bomani Grounds in Mumias West Constituency in Kakamega County where he also launched an NYS programme.