Over Sh3 billion may have been lost at the Ministry of Interior, a new audit report has revealed. The report by the Auditor General indicates billions of shillings collected as revenue for various services offered mostly by the police in the last financial year could not be accounted for. In the report tabled before the National Assembly Wednesday, Auditor General Edward Ouko says that the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) Headquarters may have lost up to Sh193.03 million. &quot;The inspection at the DCI Headquarters indicated 543,108 Police Clearing Certificates were issued, out of which Sh542.19 million was realized as application fees. However, the statement reflects a collection of Sh350.08 million,&quot; reads the report. The immigration department revenue statement reflects an amount of Sh2.63 billion against visa and consular fees. It was not however possible to ascertain the accuracy and completeness of the amount as some documents were missing. &quot;Entry declaration forms and application visa forms together with receipts could not be verified at the immigration offices at Jomo Kenyatta and Moi International Airports,&quot; states the report. ALSO READ: Has Nkaissery shown competence in handling the security docket? At the same time, revenue totalling up to Sh77.92 million collected at the various county and sub-county Administration Police offices from hiring of police services cannot be traced. According to the audit report, this revenue was not posted in cash books and the Integrated Financial Management Information (IFMIS) ledger, contrary to the Public Finance Management Regulations. An inspection of financial statements maintained at different sub-county headquarters raised eye-brows, with the auditor expressing fears that millions of shillings may have been pocketed by Government officials. Kisumu Central Sub-County Administration Police Commander Office, where it was noted that although the station was paid Sh4.4 million for provision of armed security services by the National Social Security Fund (NSSF), the cash was not surrendered to the ministry. &quot;Fake receipts, which are not accountable documents, were issued in exchange for money paid by NSSF for the provision of armed security at their plot in Milimani, Kisumu,&quot; states the report. Other losses of revenue collected from hiring of security services were recorded at the Kilifi sub-county (Sh1.53 million), Likoni sub-county (Sh742,000) and Kwale sub-county AP commander&#39;s office (Sh870,020). [email&#160;protected] ALSO READ: Government moves to avert chaos in pending party primaries