The Ministry of Lands is waiting for the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) to conclude its investigations before land owners along the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) are compensated. Cabinet Secretary Jacob Kaimenyi said the ministry is aware of stakeholders&rsquo; concerns on allegations of irregular compensation of public land along the railway by the National Land Commission (NLC). &ldquo;Since our laws are very clear that one is innocent until proven guilty, the ministry will wait for the investigations by EACC on this matter of national importance. Once EACC concludes its investigations and makes its relevant recommendations, the ministry will take the necessary appropriate action as recommended cognisant of the fact that NLC is an independent constitutional commission,&rdquo; he said in a press statement on Friday. The CS said they have undertaken measures to address irregular and illegal land transactions perpetrated by some members of the public in collusion with the ministry&rsquo;s staff. One of the measures is a systems audit of the ministry by EACC from September last year 2016 that is expected to be completed by the end of this month. &ldquo;The audit will identify weaknesses in the system and seal any loopholes which might be used by members of staff and the public to engage in irregular and illegal land transactions,&rdquo; said Prof Kaimenyi. He also said his ministry has prepared a bill on a land value index that is intended to streamline compensation for compulsorily acquired land, which is currently in the Senate. If passed, the law will introduce different forms of compensation that include allocation of alternative land of equivalent value and comparable geographical location, equity shares in a Government-owned entity and issuance of government bonds and grant, or transfer of development right as may be prescribed. Others are a taskforce constituted in February to investigate the renewal and extension of leases for the last six years. ALSO READ: One sad story that Kenya shares with S.Africa is corruption