National Super Alliance (NASA) aspirants and supporters are preparing for bruising campaigns in the Coast and Nyanza regions. While the battle at the Coast will largely be centered on strengthening the party, the competition in the Nyanza region will be internal. At the Coast, some of the rivalries will involve NASA affiliate parties, particularly ODM and Wiper. Wiper Secretary General Hassan Omar said he had no problem campaigning together with Governor Hassan Joho (ODM) for the coalition&rsquo;s Presidential candidate, Raila Odinga, even though the two will be fighting for Joho&rsquo;s seat during the August 8 elections. &ldquo;I will have no problem campaigning with him (Joho) for NASA candidate but that does not mean I won&rsquo;t articulate my agenda for Mombasa people,&rdquo; said Omar. Flawed nominations Omar and Joho both received direct nominations from Wiper and ODM, respectively, to run for Mombasa county&rsquo;s top seat. ALSO READ: High Court stops ODM from conducting fresh nominations in Suba While the ODM nominations in Nyali, Changamwe, Jomvu and Kisauni were chaotic, the only sticking point in Wiper was in Changamwe. Wiper&rsquo;s tribunal revoked the nomination of Daniel Mwenge and Peterson Mitau was handed the ticket. In Nyanza, disputes and violence rocked the nominations. In Kisumu County, there were mixed reactions yesterday when it was announced that Prof Anyang&rsquo; Nyong&rsquo;o would get the ODM ticket to run for the governor&rsquo;s seat. Therefore, Governor Jack Ranguma will have no alternative but to defend his seat as an independent candidate after the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal dismissed a case challenging the ODM&rsquo;s decision to pick Prof Nyong&rsquo;o as its nominee. A voter, Hezron J Opiyo, had moved to the tribunal to challenge the decision to award Nyong&rsquo;o the certificate, claiming the nominations were marred by massive irregularities. It has emerged that ODM may have given the Kisumu senator the certificate a week ago, even as the case challenging his nomination dragged on. There have also been fall-outs and bitter protests in Migori, Homa Bay and Siaya counties. Many of the&nbsp;losers&nbsp;in these counties have registered as independent candidates and are digging in for fresh battles. ALSO READ: Before their victory dance, NASA must be wary of bumps ahead In Siaya, Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo, Raila&rsquo;s close ally, has turned against the party after he lost to his erstwhile opponent Elisha Odhiambo, in the primaries. There was shock in Nyanza because Midiwo had a larger-than-life profile in ODM. He was not only the Opposition Deputy Leader of Minority in the National Assembly, but is also Raila&rsquo;s cousin. Journalists seeking to know Raila&rsquo;s political mood often spoke to Midiwo because of their closeness. Midiwo, Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo, who is seeking to unseat Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga, and&nbsp;Siaya woman representative aspirant Florence Aluodo last week warned of a rebellion against ODM in Nyanza over the nominations. In Bondo parliamentary seat, nominated MP Oburu Oginga quickly retreated and conceded defeat to incumbent Gideon Ochanda after attempts to have the certificate handed to him failed. But the plot is thickening in Migori. Governor Okoth Obado, who got the ODM certificate after chaotic primaries, still has mountains to climb as he faces his opponent &ndash; former Energy Minister Ochilo Ayacko who will be running as an independent candidate. Disgruntled Both Obado and Ayacko had been declared winners by two different returning officers, but the party&rsquo;s National Elections Board handed the certificate to Mr Obado. Sources close to Ayacko told Sunday Standard that he has been lobbying some disgruntled MPs and MCAs who lost in the nominations to help him oust Obado. Outgoing Senator Wilfred Machage has quit ODM and will be going for the Kuria parliamentary seat on a Democratic Party ticket, while Woman Rep Danita Ghati lost the nominations to newcomer Pamela Odhiambo. In Homa Bay County, Awiti would still face his main opponent Oyugi Magwanga in the August polls as the latter was last week seeking a clearance to contest as an independent candidate. ALSO READ: Raila Odinga: This is my last battle