&nbsp; John Sialo grinding millet using traditional method at his home at Kapsetek Vilage in Rongai sub-county on May 7,2017. Photo:Kipsang Joseph Millet flour has been one of the staples in Kenya, and Africa as a whole, for decades now. Many prefer it particularly for making ugali and porridge.&nbsp; As Kenyans cry about the soaring price of maize flour, 84-year-old John Sialo, from Kapsetek village in Rongai sub-county, continues to produce millet flour from his manual grinder. Mr Sialo, who says he inherited the grinding stones from his grandmother many years ago, sells a kilo of millet flour at Sh100. The father of 20 has been doing this for the last three decades and says he began grinding millet when he lost his job in Kericho in the early &#39;90s. &nbsp;&quot;I had worked on a settlement scheme since 1964 and when that job ended, I decided to start this business,&quot; says Sialo. ALSO READ: Rising cost of ugali opens door for githeri He says his Dutch bosses offered to travel with him overseas because he was a dedicated worker but he declined. &quot;The mzungu told me to go with him to Denmark but I preferred to stay at home. I learnt how to grind millet from watching my grandmother and decided to do it because I knew it would give me food and some money.&quot; Three stones Sialo uses only three stones to grind millet seeds and makes up to 20 kilos each day. There are no production costs because his tools are so basic. However, he says the stones are special and not found just anywhere. &quot;If you want these kinds of stones, then you have to go to Kerio Valley. You cannot use just any stones to grind millet,&quot; he says. &quot;I have been using my stones for all these years and as you can see, they are still intact. They don&#39;t wear out easily despite the friction they are exposed to daily.&quot; ALSO READ: Why search for Unga has turned into a full-time job Sialo grows the millet on his one-acre farm. He also buys it from farmers. &quot;I had to start planting millet when I first ventured into this business. But what I produce is not enough, especially when I have many orders. So I buy it from farmers to supplement what I harvest,&quot; he says. He says rain makes his work difficult. &quot;When it is sunny, the millet dries faster and it is also easier to remove the husks. But when it rains, work becomes very hard.&quot; The process of grinding millet begins with Sialo ensuring that the millet is dry. He then removes the husks using his hands before placing it on a bigger stone commonly known as &#39;koitabpek&#39; in Kalenjin. He uses another stone, much smaller, to crush the grains. The crushing may be repeated to ensure that the flour is as fine as possible. Sialo then packages the flour in one-kilo packets ready for sale to customers who come to his home. He moves around to sell whatever is left. ALSO READ: Why the current food prices crisis is man made &quot;I don&#39;t need much capital to crush millet. All I need is my three stones and hard work,&quot; he says. &quot;And my job is never complete until all the flour is sold and more orders are made. That way, I do not feel like my efforts have gone to waste.&quot; Sialo says he prefers one-kilo packages because they are easier to sell. And it would appear that this strategy is paying off, going by the developments in his homestead. He has been able to buy a motorcycle, which he uses to transport millet bought from local farmers as well as flour to his customers. Other than individual buyers, shops owners in Kampi ya Moto and Nakuru town also stock his flour. He also does business with hotels. &quot;I have customers across Nakuru and Baringo counties.&quot; Happy customers Not even the rain can stop Sialo from keeping his customers happy. &quot;Even if I have to cover the flour with polythene paper, the customer will get it in good time and good condition,&quot; he says. ALSO READ: Modern farming practices key to affordable food In Nakuru town alone, Sialo has more than 300 customers along Kenyatta Avenue, most of who were referred to him by others. &quot;Many people tell me they love my flour and will always refer more customers to me, which is how my business has continued to expand.&quot; Sialo&#39;s flour is well-known abroad as well - he says he has 20 customers in Australia. &quot;Sometimes I get calls from strange numbers; it is people demanding flour. I used to be afraid of answering their calls until they assured me that they were not bad people,&quot; says Sialo. &quot;Most of the time, I send the flour as a parcel and they have been paying me a good amount of money. Most of my overseas customers were referred by my local customers.&quot; Sialo also uses his phone to market his product on social media platforms. With the help of his grandson, he takes photos and videos that he sends to his clients everywhere. Monica Mwangi, who owns a shop at Masaai Market along Kenyatta Avenue, says she has been Sialo&#39;s customer for over three years now. Ms Mwangi says she uses the flour mainly to make porridge for her family. According to her, the flour is cheaper and easier to prepare than the machine-processed and packaged varieties. &quot;With &#39;Babu&#39;s&#39; flour, the porridge has no lumps and you need only a small amount to make lots of porridge,&quot; she says.&nbsp;