Jubilee Party has dismissed a majority of poll petitions, handing winners in the disputed party primaries a political lifeline. Only a handful of the over 500 cases filed by the disgruntled aspirants were overturned by the parties appeals tribunal under the leadership of lawyer Faith Waigwa. Yesterday, the buzz, chaos and protests that have been the order of the day at the party&#39;s headquarters was missing, with a handful of supporters being kept away by security officers manning the offices. Last batch Ms Waigwa yesterday told The Standard they were dealing with the last batch of the poll dispute cases, whose verdict, she said, would be made public today. Former Principal Secretary Mutea Iringo ambition to run for North Imenti seat was cut short after his petition challenging incumbent MP Abdul Dawood was thrown out. Francis Mureithi will now fly Jubilee flag for Embakasi East constituency after a case challenging his win was dismissed while another was withdrawn. Nyeri Woman Representative Priscilla Nyokabi lost her attempt to capture Jubilee ticket after losing her petition against Rahab Mukami, who was declared winner in the primaries. The tribunal further upheld Joyce Korir&#39;s Bomet Woman Representative ticket win. Ms Korir is the outgoing Singorwet Ward MCA. Also upheld is Kajiado East MP Peris Tobiko&#39;s win for the seat as well as Julius Mbagaya&#39;s for Kiminini parliamentary seat. It also upheld the nomination results for Kirinyaga Senator Daniel Karaba as well as Kieni MP Kanini Kega. Omar Shalo victory in Mvita parliamentary race was also upheld thus throwing away Abas Ali&#39;s petition. Also upheld was results for Kibra parliamentary seat that declared Peter Kinyanjui winner. Some of the wins that the tribunal overturned include that of Makadara MP Maina Kamanda after the tribunal declared popular musician Charles Njagua Kanyi alias Jaguar as the winner. The tribunal noted that there was compelling evidence that Jaguar was rigged out in the Nairobi primaries. In the Kamjunji dispute, former MP Simon Mbugua &quot;stepped down&quot; for sitting MP Yusuf Hassan for interest of Somali minority. Yesterday, The Political Parties Disputes Tribunal directed Jubilee Party to hand Embakasi North MP James Mwangi Gakuya the nomination certificate. Proceeded to court Mr Gakuya proceeded to court over alleged dragging by the party to settle the dispute. But Waigwa yesterday said she was surprised by the move since the party had ruled in the incumbent&#39;s favour. On Monday evening, the tribunal failed to pronounce itself over the case and told Gakuya and his supporters to give them more time to decide over the matter. The delay saw the MP&#39;s rowdy supporters cause commotion at the party&#39;s headquarters, forcing the police to lob teargas canisters to disperse them. &nbsp; Source: Standard ALSO READ: Where is Owira the President's son?