Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto has claimed Jubilee Party leaders are plotting to rig him out. Speaking in Bomet on Saturday, Mr Ruto and Narok West MP Stephen Ntutu alleged Jubilee was working to ensure that they were locked out of leadership in August by all means. &quot;We are aware that Jubilee is targeting us in South Rift and may rig the election to stop us from taking up leadership after August,&quot; claimed the MP, who is eyeing the Narok governorship on a Chama Cha Mashinani (CCM) ticket. Mr Ntutu said it was sad that Jubilee was uncomfortable with leaders with dissenting views. The MP said they would set up a parallel tallying centre to guard against theft of votes. Ruto claimed the move by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to challenge the ruling that results announced at the constituency were final was suspect. IEBC appeal ALSO READ: Opinion: Political parties are the bane of our maturing democracy &quot;What interest does IEBC have in the results to the extent that they are rushing to court? They should stop that nonsense and let the results be announced at polling stations and tallying centres,&quot; the CCM party leader said. The two were addressing a CCM rally at Bomet Green Stadium, where more than 800 successful candidates from seven counties received their nomination certificates. Ruto drummed up support for CCM aspirants and NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga in the coming polls. He exuded confidence that the NASA agreement with CCM was a good deal. Ruto said he would still run as Bomet governor and nominate someone as a deputy premier if NASA took over in August. He also told Jubilee off over allegations that the premier and deputy premier positions did not exist in the Constitution. Ruto said Article 152 of the Constitution gave the President powers to organise the Government. &quot;Jubilee are living a lie or they are ignorant about the Constitution,&quot; he said. ALSO READ: Opinion: Raise quality of voter engagement on issues