The implementation of the laws requiring households and commercial buildings to have solar hot water equipment has seen a surge in the number of firms marketing the products. This has seen a segment of the industry now raise fears that Kenyans are being exposed to inferior and even substandard products.
 The Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC) started implementation of the rules that require landlords owning buildings that consume above 100 litress of hot water daily to install solar water heating systems this year. 
 ALSO READ:

Setback for consumers as ERC hikes fuel pump prices

 The move is meant to promote the use of renewable energy as well as save national grid energy.
 Such buildings include commercial property built before the regulations were gazetted in 2012 as well as residential buildings with more than three bedrooms.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 ERC started inspections mid this year, after a five-year grace period given by the 2012 gazette notice expired.
 The regulator has since warned that it will start prosecuting non-compliant building owners.  
 Surge in demand
 Solar division manager at Davis and Shirtliff Norman Chege said while the rules have resulted in a surge in demand for solar water heating equipment, there has been a spike in the number of firms retailing the equipment whose products and skills are questionable.
 “There is such a huge demand for the equipment and all players are finding themselves in need of replenishing stocks. There is also need to have technicians for the installations as well as servicing the equipment once they have been installed at client’s premises,” he said.
 “There have been opportunistic investors that are looking at cashing in on the growth in demand. Their quality is however questionable and could be putting at risk lives and property in the buildings where they are installing the equipment.”
 He said consumers need to understand that solar power is as useful and dangerous as grid power, hence the need for caution. This includes the products as well as manpower. “ERC should also enforce the regulations that require all importers, resellers and installers to be accredited.”
 ERC requires layers handling solar equipment to undergo accreditation, including written and oral examinations.
 Policing the industry has however been difficult owing to inadequate personnel.
