The long awaited repeat presidential election failed to kick off in four of Nyanza's six counties. There was drama at a polling station in Siaya County after anti-poll protestors killed a dog and hung its carcass on the gate of a polling station.  
 On the morning of 26 October, residents woke up and found a dead dog hanging on the gate of Karapul Primary School in Siaya town. Locals said the macabre killing of a dog is a warning to Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) officers.  
 ALSO READ:

Low voter turnout in Nairobi’s Mathare slums

 "This is a warning that this is a danger zone and not a polling station," said one youth.
 On Wednesday 25 October, NASA leader Raila Odinga asked his supporters not to participate in a sham election. "Convince your friends, neighbors and everyone else not to participate. Instead, we advise Kenyans who value democracy and justice hold vigil and prayers away from polling stations,” said Raila. He also announced that NASA coalition has been transformed into a resistance movement.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 There were comical moments as National Super Alliance (NASA) supporters used all means and tricks to ensure that voting does not happen in Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay and Migori counties. Voters stayed away and IEBC officials did not report on duty despite heavy security. 
 Police had a busy day engaging NASA supporters in running battles. They had to fire teargas at rioting youth who were blocking roads.
 A few meters from Karapul Primary School, a giant handwritten billboard read: "National Resistance Movement (NRM) headquarters."  
 At Rarieda Primary school, also a polling station, protestors blocked the gate with huge trees. 
 Voting only took place in parts of  Nyamira, Kisii and Kuria counties.
 Hours before voting ended, IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati has postponed the repeat presidential polls in Homa Bay, Kisumu, Migori and Siaya counties to October 28 over security concerns.
  
 ALSO READ:

Chief Justice David Maraga votes (Photos)

