Police are investigating hate leaflets that were circulated in Kakamega town ahead of October 26 election.
 County police boss Tito Kilonzi said the leaflets, asking members of a community to leave the town, were dropped in the streets on Tuesday night by unknown people. 
 ALSO READ:

Winning war on fake news involves us all

 “We suspect criminal elements are taking advantage of the political environment in the country to author and circulate the leaflets in order to instil fear in Kenyans. The police will not allow that to go on,” Mr Kilonzi told journalists on Wednesday.
 He said although they had not arrested anyone, police were following crucial leads to help them smoke out the authors of the leaflets.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “We urge people to be calm and let the police handle the issue,” said Kilonzi.
 This comes shortly after police raided the home of former Kakamega senator Boni Khalwale in Malinya, Ikolomani sub-county.
 Hiding tyres
 Dr Khalwale was not at home during the raid on Tuesday but his lawyer, Innocent Ondiek, managed to stop the security agents from searching the politician’s house.
 The officers produced a court order allowing them to conduct the search but it was not signed by the former lawmaker’s lawyer, making it impossible for them to go ahead with exercise.
 Police said they suspected Khalwale was hiding tyres and weapons in the house that would be used during NASA demonstrations. 
 ALSO READ:

Why we must start to tell our own stories of hope and success

 Earlier, former county chief officer Nabii Nabwera was arrested at his Lugari home, allegedly in connection with the leaflets, which also called on area residents to boycott the election.
 He recorded a statement at Lumakanda Police Station.
 Kilonzi said security has been beefed up to ensure that those wishing to participate in the election cast their ballot.
 “The security committee has assessed the situation in this area and decided that those who will disrupt peace must be dealt with accordingly. Those not interested in voting should keep off polling centres,” he said.
 Elsewhere, police have barred Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya from holding a public rally at Shianda trading centre in Mumias East.
 Mumias East Deputy County Commissioner Willy Cheboi said the meeting planned by Mr Oparanya could not go on since the campaign period had ended.
 Police have also banned demonstrations in the area, saying no one has notified them about the demos to date.
 jshilitsa@standardmedia.co.ke
