Residents of Kanunga village are living in fear as a notorious criminal gang continues their reign of terror.
 Those interviewed said they were living at the mercy of the gang said to be headed by three former convicts. 
 ALSO READ:

Land row sparks students protests in Kiambu

 Over the last few months, the gang has engaged in robberies and has also maimed and killed several people.
 Not even the presence of a police post has deterred the criminals as insecurity in the area remains high.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 A 74-year-old woman is the latest victim of the gang. Anna Wambui was burnt to death in her house last Friday night. Her grandson, a Form Two student who was in the house with her at the time of the attack, managed to escaped.
 "Loud screams woke us up," said a witness.
 "I came out to find Wambui's house on fire. We tried to fight it but it was fierce. We called in fire fighters who managed to put it out but it was too late."
 Neighbours said Ms Wambui may have been targeted because she was vocal about insecurity in the area.
 Spoken passionately
 She is said to have spoken passionately about insecurity during a recent security meeting and even named the ex-convicts as the people behind the gang. 
 ALSO READ:

Protests in Kiambu after Babu Owino remarks (Photos)

 "We believe the criminals were unhappy with her, especially after she went ahead to name the ex-convicts. She had to pay the ultimate price," said another resident.
 Just a week before Wambui's death, the gang is said to have entered her compound, slaughtered a goat and left with the meat.
 They left the head of the goat hanging outside her house.
 Two neighbours said they were recently robbed as they walked home in the evening. They were left with serious injuries.
 The atmosphere in the village is tense as almost everyone is treated with suspicion.
 No one is willing to talk openly about the gang or those said to be behind it. Whenever they see journalists, the residents leave one by one because they do not want to be interviewed. They only agreed to speak to The Standard in confidence.
 Area chief Jane Gichuhi confirmed the rate of insecurity was alarming and blamed it on the ex-convicts. 
 ALSO READ:

County assembly to hold sittings in wards

 Kiambu OCPD Duncan Nguthu said they had intensified patrols. However, he said no suspects had been arrested in connection with the suspected arson attack and asked locals to volunteer information that could lead to the culprits' arrest.
