The Government has revived plans for the construction of the Sh37 billion second runway at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport after numerous delays due to lack of funds.
 The Kenya Airports Authority (KAA) said yesterday the Government had applied for financing from the African Development Bank (AfDB) for the JKIA Airfield Expansion Project, part of which would go to building the second runway. 
 ALSO READ:

Kenya Hockey Union seeks to improve hockey standards in the country

 In a notice in the dailies yesterday, KAA has invited consultants to bid for the tender to review the design of the project, supervise its construction, and act as the contract administrator.
 “The consultant is expected to review the designs and ensure that the project is implemented in accordance with the general and particular conditions of the contract, the technical specifications, and engineering drawings,” said the notice. The consultant will also be expected to ensure that the project is implemented within the contract price and time earmarked for completion.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 The Government opted to build a second runway at the region’s busiest airport after abandoning plans for the Sh50 billion Greenfield terminal project due to what it said was increased capacity at the refurbished JKIA.
 Commencement of construction of the runway, however, has delayed for almost four years now due to what KAA has previously said was delay in the release of funds by AfDB.
 Once completed, the new runway is expected to nearly double the movement of aircraft at the airport from the current 25 to 45 per hour.
 This is expected to minimise delays caused by mishaps on the path. The region’s top airport depends on a single runway built more than four decades ago, which has compromised its efficiency. The danger of having a single runway was exposed last year when a light aircraft crash-landed on it, paralysing operations at the facility for several hours.
 Value for money
 In yesterday’s press advert, the KAA management said it was also looking for another contractor to, among other things, conduct a baseline survey on the existing economic, social, and environmental conditions in the project area prior to its commencement. 
 ALSO READ:

We lack the will to live under the very laws we have crafted

 “The consultant shall specifically be responsible for baseline data collection, mid-term, and post-construction assessment of impacts arising from the project,” said KAA.
 This will include assessing the impact that the project will have on air connectivity and trade, tourism, consequent economic growth, and regional integration. The audit will gauge if the project will offer value for money.
 In addition, the consultant will be expected to continually monitor key aspects of the project in consultation with KAA. Those interested in any of the two contracts have been directed to submit their expression of interest by mid-next month.
 JKIA was constructed in 1978 to serve about 2.5 million passengers per year, but over the years, the capacity has shot up to 7.5 million passengers.
