One person died and several others were injured in demonstrations against the Independent Boundaries and Electoral Commission (IEBC).
 Protests in Nairobi, Kisumu, Kakamega, Mombasa, Garissa and Kitui counties saw anti-riot police engage in running battles with supporters of the National Super Alliance (NASA) pushing for reforms at IEBC before the October 26 repeat presidential poll. 
 ALSO READ:

Nairobi Business Community vows to counter NASA protests

 Other counties where protests were held were Migori, Homa Bay, Vihiga and Embu.
 A number of organisers of the protest in Kisii were arrested by police, while in Kakamega journalists covering the protests were roughed up by police officers.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 In Siaya town, one person died when demonstrations that started peacefully turned chaotic as police officers dispersed protesters.
 Martin Odongo from Randago village allegedly died after he was choked by tear-gas fumes.
 Witnesses said Odongo was among protesters at the county IEBC offices' gate when the police lobbed tear-gas canisters. Odongo fell during the ensuing melee and died.
 “He was running in the crowd and we are not sure whether he was hit or he just collapsed on his own,” said Celestine Akoth, a witness.
 County Commandant Sarah Dancuns, however denied the witnesses’ assertions, saying  the man died away from the demonstrations.
 She argued that Odongo was coming from the hospital and collapsed by the roadside next to the county government offices. 
 ALSO READ:

Hearings on proposed law changes begin amid standoff

 “We found drugs in his pocket and, from our investigations, he died away from the protests. We cannot give more information now until we receive post-mortem results, “ she said.
 Siaya Medical superintendent Geoffrey Mwai confirmed they received a body at the morgue brought by the police.
 Governor Cornel Rasanga, Alego Usonga MP Samuel Atandi and Woman Representative Christine Ombaka, who led residents in anti-IEBC demonstrations, said they would not relent until the commission fulfills NASA’s demands.
 In Kisumu, five people were injured in the demonstrations.
 Three of them were attacked by demonstrators for not joining the protests, while one was involved in an accident as he rode a motorcycle.
 The demonstrations were led by area MPs Jared Okelo (Nyando), Onyango Koyo (Muhoroni), Fred Ouda (Kisumu Central), James Nyikal (Seme), Senator Fred Outa and Woman Representative Roza Buyu.
 The demonstrators broke the police barricade, and accessed the CBD leading to a six-hour cat and mouse game between them and security officers trying to keep them off the county IEBC offices. 
 ALSO READ:

Nairobi Business Community vows to counter NASA protests

 In Migori, MPs Peter Masara (Suna West) and Mark Nyamita (Uriri) led the demonstrations which later turned chaotic after the police lobbed tear gas at the demonstrators.
 “It is not over yet. The demonstrations will go on until we are assured that the forthcoming elections are free from possibilities of manipulation,” said Nyamita.
 In Nairobi, the police frustrated efforts by demonstrators to deliver a protest note to IEBC offices at Anniversary Towers. Tear-gas canisters were lobbed at protestors gathering at various points within the CBD, paralysing activities in some areas.
 A counter-group that claimed to comprise business community members was also dispersed too.
 A host of NASA MPs led by Nairobi Woman Representative Esther Passaris led protests in the city before they were dispersed by anti-riot police.
 They said they would stage similar protests on Friday.
 In Kakamega town, the protests that started peacefully turned chaotic when news spread that  Senator Cleophas Malala had been blocked from leaving his home.
 The claims prompted protesters to barricade the busy Kisumu-Kakamega highway, lighting fires on the busy road.
 For hours, business in the town was paralysed, as owners closed shop fearing the unknown. 
 ALSO READ:

Hearings on proposed law changes begin amid standoff

 “I am unable to even go to town to buy food for my family. When I try to leave the compound, I am forced to return immediately,” Malala told journalists covering the protests.
 Journalists at the home of Malala were roughed up as the police lobbed tear-gas canisters at The Standard journalists’ vehicle. The driver was pulled out of the vehicle, and briefly held.
 NASA leaders who came to the senator’s rescue condemned the act, allegedly by police, saying they will continue with the demonstrations.
 At least five youths were injured in the protests.
 Former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale condemned police attack on the protesters, saying they were infringing on people’s right to picket.
 Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, who was missing in the front-line, later told journalists in his office that they would not relent until NASA demands were met.
 In Busia, Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga, Nambale MP Sakwa Bunyasi, Busia Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi and Governor Sospeter Ojaamong’s wife Judy led the demonstrations to deliver their grievance letter to the county’s IEBC offices.
 And in Bungoma, the scenario was the same with the protesters calling for the immediate resignation of IEBC Chief Executive Officer Ezra Chiloba. 
 ALSO READ:

Raila to President Uhuru: Forget western votes

 Tension gripped Mombasa city as the protests kicked off despite heavy police presence.
 The demonstrators walked from Uhuru Gardens on Moi Avenue across the Central Business District, Nkrumah Road and the IEBC regional offices off Mama Ngina Drive near State House where elected leaders presented a petition to staff.
 They carried placards reading “No reforms, No election” and “Chiloba must go”.
 The IEBC offices were heavily guarded by General Service Unit (GSU) officers even as Deputy Governor William Kingi and Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir asked supporters to remain outside the IEBC offices as they presented the petition.
 Also present were Senator Mohamed Faki, Woman Representative Asha Hussein, Likoni MP Mishi Mboko and her Jomvu counterpart Badi Twalib.
 In Kitui, a section of leaders led residents in peaceful demonstrations calling for electoral reforms at the IEBC.
 The demo, which was closely monitored by the anti-riot police, was led by Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua and included MPs Makali Mulu (Kitui Central), Charles Nguna (Mwingi West), Musyimi Nzengu (Mwingi North) and a number of MCAs.
 Some of the demonstrators who included boda boda riders carried posters reading ‘Huku ni Raila na Kalonzo tu’,  ‘Leave Lustice Mwilu alone’ while others castigated Chiloba.
 Senator Wambua reiterated that there will be no credible elections in the country unless electoral reforms were undertaken at the elections body, chief among them the resignation of Chiloba.
 He claimed the Jubilee administration was using chiefs to buy identity cards from prospective voters in Ukambani with the aim of tilting the numbers in their favour.
 Meanwhile, President Uhuru Kenyatta has asked Opposition leaders to stop dragging Kenyans into demonstrations over the recent amendments to election laws, but instead argue out their case in Parliament.
 Addressing thousands of mourners at the burial of Machakos Town MP Victor Munyaka’s father, George Munyaka, at Ngelani village, Machakos County yesterday, Uhuru who was accompanied by his deputy William Ruto warned that the call for mass demonstrations by the Opposition was a recipe for chaos.
 [Reports by Cyrus Ombati, Kevine Omollo, Harold Odhiambo, Olivia Odhiambo, James Omoro, Alex Wakhisi, Nathan Ochunge, Raphael Wanjala, Ignatius Odanga, Eric Lungai, Patrick Beja, Philip Muasya] 
