Nine people were seriously injured as police and anti-IEBC demonstrators engaged in running battles across Nyanza.
 Two people were shot in Migori, two in Kisumu, and one in Siaya as police used live bullets, teargas, and batons to break up demonstrations against today's elections. 
 ALSO READ:

Kenya’s long road to today’s election

 A nurse at the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital's casualty department, Henry Ondieki, said those injured suffered gunshot wounds and injuries from blunt objects. He said they were aged between 18 and 30.
 One of the victims said he was not participating in the demonstrations. Mohamed Juma, who was shot in the buttocks, told The Standard that he was sitting outside a shop at Kondele when he was shot by officers standing at an overpass.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 In Siaya, a GSU officer shot and wounded 26-year-old Marvin Ochieng at Ng'iya trading centre in Alego Usonga constituency. A rubber bullet ripped off his mouth. He was rushed to Ng'iya mission hospital.
 The police also teargassed MPs Sam Atandi (Alego) and Jacklyne Oduol (nominated) and several MCAs.
 Roads blocked
 In Migori, Laban Adero, 38 was shot in the chest. The bullet exited and hit another demonstrator who was not immediately identified.
 Confrontation between police in Migori and NASA supporters started on Tuesday night and extended to yesterday, with businesses being closed and roads blocked.
 Scores were injured while scampering for safety. Some were armed with slings which they used to hurl stones at the police, who shot at them to disperse them. Sources claimed the protesters wanted to force their way into Migori Teachers Training College to destroy election materials purportedly stored there. The Kenya-Tanzania highway through Isebania was blocked for more than 24 hours. 
 ALSO READ:

Kenyans react on formation of Raila’s movement

 Nyanza Regional Commissioner Wilson Njenga warned NASA supporters against disrupting today's poll. He said his officers had put in place measures to ensure the election goes on smoothly.
 Kisumu was calm most of the day after a peaceful demonstration led by Governor Peter Anyang' Nyong'o. The demonstrators marched to the IEBC offices before going back to Kondele. Some blocked roads and demanded money from motorists.
 [Story by Harold Odhiambo, Olivia Odhiambo and Kepher Otieno] 
