NAIROBI, KENYA: Kenya is among the first African countries to introduce better HIV/AIDS treatment for people living with HIV that causes Aids.
 And although the country’s health authorities have launched new ways to reduce the spread of HIV infection among its people, more needs to be done, a visiting Chinese university medical researcher specialising in herbal medicine has said.
 Latest reports indicate that although Kenya is the second African country after South Africa to have pre-exposure prophylaxis guidelines, more infections are being reported, especially among vulnerable groups.
 The process involves giving antiretroviral (ARVs) drugs to people who are not infected but are at high risk of infection. Taking the drug reduces the chances of HIV infection.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 As a deterrent measure, Professor Tian Shengxun of China’s Henan University of Chinese Traditional Medicine has asked Kenya to adopt a multi-pronged approach in the war against HIV/ Aids through use of herbal medicine so as to mitigate against the high levels of HIV/AIDS treatment failures in the country.
 “Most of the ARV drugs have failed to slow down the spread of HIV. The rising cases of resistance to commonly used drugs by patients across Africa and Asia calls for alarm and innovative ways such as use of herbal medicines to reverse the trend, “says Prof.Tian Shengxun.
 The clinical researcher is credited for the discovery of a herbal drug which kills HIV virus and suppresses the multiplication of the HIV virus in humans. The herbal medicine, Tian Immunity Booster or TIB is already delivering new approaches to effective management of affected persons.
 “A number of studies have established that patients are developing resistance to drugs used to treat HIV/AIDS. But by combining herbal and modern medicine then patients can live longer since and lead more productive and happier lives,” explains the don.
 Prof. Tian says the Tian Immune Booster is manufactured through modern technology as proper compounds are extracted from more than 30 different pure herbs.
 “The TIB therapy has multiple and powerful antibiotic functions apart from strong multiple anti-viral functions such as treating HBV infection ( Hepatitis B ) and HSV infection ( genital herpes ). For sure TIB therapy has multiple functions and can handle most of Opportunistic Infections (OPIs) linked to lower immunity or HIV/Aids,” adds Prof. Tian.
 TIBs have already gotten the approval from the University of Freiburg Germany and a Japanese university whom booth approved ability of TIB to kill HIV virus and control the replication of HIV virus.
Speaking to the Standard from his Africa regional clinic based at the Nairobi Women Hospital, Hurlingham, Nairobi, he announced the scientific tests had confirmed TIB as a herbal anti-viral drug ( of course clinically confirmed, too), with the function to stop HIV viral multiplication, such as through blocking fusion taking place between HIV/AIDS virus and immune T-cell (the CD4 cell). He said the conclusion were arrived at after various European and leading Asian universities conducted a number of efficacy trials of the herbal medicine.
“The research has shown that TIB drugs are a combination of wide brand anti-viral, antibiotics and immune booster without any side effects and toxicity. This makes it the crucial base of TIBs  to fight HIV /Aids in Africa,” he added.

“There are four different sugar-coated TIB tablets, with active ingredients extracted from 100% pure Chinese herbs. Unlike the conventional ARVs, TIB products are fusion inhibitor killing HIV virus before the beginning of cell infection.” adds Prof Shengxun.
