Counties in the North Rift experienced low voter turnout in Thursday's repeat presidential election compared to the August 8 poll.
 At Wareng polling station in Kapseret constituency in Uasin Gishu County, there were less than 300 voters on the queue by 8am. 
 ALSO READ:

Repeat election: Constituencies tally

 At Ruman Primary School in Kesses constituency, only a few people could be seen in the queues that in August stretched to nearby residential areas.
 However, most businesses remained shut in Eldoret town following a directive by the county government.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 On Wednesday, Governor Jackson Mandago asked businessmen in the area to only open their shops after casting their ballots.
 “We are aware that business people want to make a profit but some hours will not do them any harm. The directive is only meant for them to cast their votes and for their own peace,” said Mr Mandago.
 Most of the businesses that closed for the better part of the day included M-Pesa shops, supermarkets, social joints such as bars and clubs, markets, and restaurants.
 “It rained most of last night and the muddy and chilly weather has not helped,” said Peter Mwangi, a voter.
 Blamed politicians
 Others blamed politicians for not doing enough to encourage voters to turn out to vote. 
 ALSO READ:

Pastor stops IEBC officials from using church as polling station

 Victor Kemboi, a voter at Murgor Primary School, took the initiative to transport the aged and disabled to polling stations.
 At Kipkoror polling station in Nandi Hills constituency, there were no queues, with voters taking only a few minutes at the centre.
 At Mberia Toleltany Primary School, out of 320 registered voters, 200 voters had voted by noon
 Security was beefed up in the town, with officers patrolling the streets for the better part of the day.
 In Trans Nzoia, poor turnout and confusion marred the repeat presidential elections.
 By 1pm, most polling stations had recorded less than 6 per cent turnout.
 There was violence in Mitume in Saboti constituency when NASA supporters tried to block the road leading to local polling stations but were dispersed by police officers. 
 ALSO READ:

Repeat election exposes two faces of Kenya

 Unknown people on Thursday raided Lukhuna Dip polling station and destroyed tents erected by IEBC for the polling exercise.
 On Wednesday, a woman said to be a Jubilee supporter was attacked and injured at Birunda in Saboti constituency.
 In West Pokot, the county returning officer, John Mwangi, said everything went on smoothly despite low turnout.
 He, however, said heavy rains could affect the exercise in some parts of the county.
 In Elgeyo Marakwet County, voting was also affected by heavy rains.
 Most polling stations The Standard team visited had few voters.
