Repeat presidential elections took place in Nakuru County peacefully in all polling stations.
 Although the process started at a slow pace, queues kept growing longer as the day progressed with voters not in a hurry to cast the ballots. 
 ALSO READ:

Slow start in Kisii as CS Matiang’i assures Kenyans of security

 Most of the polling stations opened at 6 am or minutes later - with small queues of people who arrived as early as 5:30 am.
 Voters who spoke to the Standard expressed confidence in the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) saying the process was well organized.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 "So far so good. I am happy I have exercised my constitutional right to vote without any problem. IEBC has done well and I think in future it needs to split the exercise in two segments for the purpose of transparency and efficiency," said Wyclif Oguda, a voter at St. Teresa Primary School in Kivumbini Ward, Nakuru town east constituency.
 The voting process was short with one voter taking an average of 5 minutes to complete the process.
 Governor Lee Kinyanjui and a group of Members of the County Assembly, went on a voter mobilization initiative across the county targeting the elderly, persons living with disability and the sick.
 Mr. Kinyanjui deposited Sh 100,000 at the Mololine Group public service vehicles to transport some 200 voters from Nairobi to Nakuru.
 "I had information that some voters working in Nairobi were unable to travel to Nakuru to vote due to lack of bus fare. We had to intervene as leaders to allow them come and exercise their right to vote, “he said.
 The governor said 99 per cent of the county was peaceful and queues at polling stations were growing longer as the day went by. 
 ALSO READ:

KTN journalist Yvonne Okwara one-on-one with IG Joseph Boinnet

 In Nakuru Town East Constituency, a group of locals who had registered in Nyandarua County were mobilised by the Ronda MCA to go vote there yesterday.
 Public Service Vehicles belonging to Mololine Group were seen ferrying voters to polling stations in Bahati and Subukia constituencies.
