State House has warned Opposition leaders against using the current election stalemate to cause chaos in the country.
 Spokesperson Manoah Esipisu described Opposition leaders as hell-bent on doing everything to achieve their political desires. 
 ALSO READ:

Nairobi Business Community vows to counter NASA protests

 Esipisu said: "This country has institutions and so demagogues really have to find their space because institutions in this country will be allowed to run."
 "Street protests will not fix some of the contested issues. I ask the Opposition top leadership to engage within the established institutions such as Parliament," Esipisu said.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “There’s a point of principle here; we have no business giving in to those who think the way to change rules in a democracy is to use force against civilians and institutions.”
 He said this even as the Opposition notified the police about the protests to eject some poll officials they accuse of bungling the August 8 presidential election.
 NASA coalition leaders said they were within their rights to picket and asked the police to provide security during the procession around Anniversary Towers.
 They said they will ensure the demonstrations will be peaceful and orderly. They said the coalition had made arrangements for peace marshalls to guide and manage the demonstrators.
 In Kitui, Senator Enock Wambua has accused the police of trying to muzzle the people’s right to protest.
 He said his notification to the police was rejected but vowed to lead his constituents in staging the demos. 
 ALSO READ:

Hearings on proposed law changes begin amid standoff

 “This country is headed to very dark days ahead. Police in Kitui are telling me they will not allow NASA demonstrations following orders from above. But we are not seeking permission from anyone to hold peaceful demonstrations,” said Mr Wambua.
 Esipisu accused the Opposition leaders of undermining the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, citing demands by NASA leader Raila Odinga.
  
