Police broke into businessman Jimmy Wanjigi’s Muthaiga house on Tuesday afternoon after an overnight siege.
 The police had Monday besieged the Nairobi home of the businessman on 44 Muthaiga Road as they sought to arrest him after the discovery and seizure of five rifles and 93 bullets from a villa in Malindi. 
 ALSO READ:

Police raid Jimmy Wanjigi’s Muthaiga home (Photos)

 Mr Wanjigi has since denied that the Malindi villa belongs to him.
 Detectives from the Special Crimes Prevention Unit and Flying Squad arrived at Wanjigi’s gate at about midday. The fortified compound is opposite the official residence of the American ambassador to Kenya.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 The officers showed guards on duty a warrant and said they had come to conduct a search.
 On Tuesday, more police arrived at Wanjigi’s Muthaiga home armed with sledgehammers and wire cutters.
 Jimmy Wanjigi moved to court seeking to stop his arrest. The businessman sued Police Inspector General Joseph Boinnet and DPP Keriako Tobiko.
 Government Spokesman Eric Kiraithe said the raid on Wanjigi's homes was in the interest of national security.
 Reports however indicated that Wanjigi bought the Malindi home from two Italian businessmen in 2013 and that he was expected to visit at the weekend but did not turn up.
 
 Pictures and video footage in our possession show officers arriving armed with rifles, metal cutters and sledgehammers.
 The officers are seen struggling to smash the oak doors but not the glass suggesting that it could be the reinforced Kevlar type.
 Later they are seen inside a ritzy sitting room asking “Mzee wapi mwenye nyumba? Tunajua nyinyi ni wazazi?” (Where is the owner of the house? We know you are parents.), suggesting the presence of other parties not captured on camera. The only civilian seen is a young man on a couch
 Later a female voice is heard telling an officer “I will take you where you want to go. Where do you want to go?”
 Another officer in a white shirt, pistol in hand, stands calmly as another one is busy tearing down doors.
