Just what new declaration will he make tomorrow (Monday)? This is the question in the lips of Kenyans, a week after opposition leader Raila Odinga announced the transformation of National Super Alliance (NASA) into a resistance movement. As anxiety sweeps across the country over his next move, security agents, millions of his supporters, diplomats and Jubilee operatives keep their ears on the ground as those close to him remained tight lipped on what could be in Raila’s speech to be delivered tomorrow. Will he give details and action plans for the new movement or will he name the businesses whose goods and services he wants Kenyans to boycott over their association with the Jubilee government? While addressing supporters at Kibra on Friday, Raila said he would make a major announcement tomorrow on the next course of action. This comes after the repeat presidential election, which the opposition boycotted and which led to massive security operations in NASA strongholds, resulting into deaths and injuries of several people. Raila withdrew from the repeat poll, terming it a sham, after the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) failed to meet NASA’s ‘irreducible minimum’ demands. The Opposition chief said the movement will announce in detail the measures they will take on Monday to force the Government to step down. He said if President Kenyatta is declared winner, the opposition will announce measures it would take to exert pressure on Jubilee to leave power. He however ruled out violence. Yesterday, politicians close to Raila were guarded in their comments, but hinted the NASA leader was likely to give a roadmap for civil disobedience against the government. “I don’t want to pretend that I know details of what exactly he will say on Monday but I am certain the country will have to prepare for more mass action and civil disobedience,” said an MP, who requested not to be named. Alego Usonga MP Sammy Atandi was more blunt, “There is going to be civil disobedience. We are going to renew mass action calls until this criminal government is thrown out.” Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi asked Kenyans to prepare for “a very big announcement” tomorrow. “Our supporters should expect to hear more and see a lot of action from the NASA resistance wing in the coming days,” he told Sunday Standard. Mr Wandayi said the fight to liberate Kenya will be “long and tedious”. “October 26 marked the beginning of a new phase of the struggle. It’s bound to be protracted and calls for patience and resilience of all patriots,” said the ODM secretary for political affairs. ”A few will fall by the wayside but ultimately we shall get to the destination because the third liberation of Kenya is unstoppable.” Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga said they are waiting for direction from Raila on the next move. “We are waiting for a word from our commander,” he said in an SMS to the Sunday Standard. Raila’s announcement tomorrow will be coming against the backdrop of sustained police operation against anti-IEBC protests in Nyanza, Western and Nairobi. While announcing the transformation of NASA into a resistance movement last week, Raila said the opposition will embark on a national campaign of defiance of “illegitimate government authority” and non-cooperation with all its organs. He said the opposition will rally Kenyans to boycott the goods and services offered by businesses for whose benefit dictatorship is being established. People’s assembly “We shall convene a people’s assembly for the purpose of charting our way back to constitutionalism and democracy,” he said. “We will mobilise all progressive forces in the country to ensure a fresh, free and fair presidential election is organised within 90 days.” The boycott threats have caused anxiety among many local and foreign investors with huge investments on service companies in Kenya. There has been speculation on which products and services would ask Kenyans to boycott. “I strongly feel he may name the companies tomorrow. I want to assure you that if he does so, Kenya will never be the same again. The socio-economic and political landscape will take a 180-degree turn,” says Domnic Mboga, a consultant auditor. In opposition strongholds such as Kisumu, Raila’s supporters discussed his expected speech in small groups.