Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) has given an update on the October 26 repeat presidential election. IEBC said on Sunday it had received hardcopy results from 256 of the 264 constituencies that participated in the disputed poll. The commission, however, noted that it had only verified results from 235 constituencies. “IEBC says they have received hard copy results from 256 constituencies, 235 verified and posted
on its public portal,” IEBC posted on Twitter. The Commission has received hard copy results from 256 constituencies. 235 have been verified and posted.
— IEBC (@IEBCKenya) October 29, 2017  The 264 are minus 27 constituencies in the Nyanza counties of Kisumu, Migori, Homa Bay and Siaya where IEBC postponed the poll following anti-poll protests that rocked the areas. The National Super Alliance (NASA) dared the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission on Saturday to declare President Uhuru Kenyatta winner in the repeat poll. Led by Siaya Senator James Orengo, NASA leaders vowed on Saturday that they will use the August 8 General Election results to declare Opposition chief, Raila Odinga, president if Uhuru is sworn in. “We will use August 8 results to swear NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga if Uhuru Kenyatta tries to use October 26 poll results to be sworn in,” said Orengo in Mavoko, Machakos County. Mr Orengo pointed out that according to the Constitution, Kenyans have the sovereign authority and their voices must be heard. “The executive authority of Republic of Kenya is with the people of Kenya, the Constitution says you have the sovereign authority. Uhuru does not have sovereign authority, you people have,” the Siaya Senator told residents in Machakos. Orengo reminded people of how Raila fought to ensure that Kenya attained multiparty democracy. “Raila Odinga alipambana na Kenyatta wa kwanza mpaka akafa, Moi alienda nyumbani baada ya kufunga Raila, Kibaki joked with Raila and he went home, Uhuru Kenyatta will go home and Raila Odinga will come to be the President of Kenya,” he said.