Police had a rough time controlling rowdy youth who used a swarm of bees to block the entrance to a polling station in Malava constituency.
 The youth carried a hive full of the bees to Matsakha Primary School polling station forcing IEBC officials to call in the law enforcers from Malava police station. 
 ALSO READ:

Voter turns up wearing bee protective gear

 A handful voters present were forced to move far away from the gate fearing attacks by the bees.
 The security personnel led by Malava OCPD Anne Muli led an operation to fight the bees. Police had earlier arrested some youth at Matsakha and Shilongo for attempting to disrupt voting.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 At Mugai Primary School, an assistant chief was chased away by angry locals who accused him of dishing handouts to coerce people to vote.
 Locals said the officer was giving people perceived to be Jubilee supporters Sh50 and directing them to the polling station to cast their ballots.
 But Hassan Musumi who is in charge of Sundulo sub-location denied the claims saying he went to the polling station to see how the voting exercise had been progressing.
 “It is not true that I was giving out money. I just went to the polling station to find out whether things were going on well and left immediately,” he said adding that he has no money to give out.
 Earlier, a man in the area beat up his wife accusing him of going to vote against his wish.  Ezekiel Kitiavi confronted the wife as she was walking back home from Mugai polling centre.
 “It is common knowledge that I am a NASA supporter yet my wife sneaked to go and vote for Jubilee,” he told journalists. Most of the polling stations were deserted in the area despite having been opened in good time. 
 ALSO READ:

Election Day Update: How NASA and Jubilee supporters spent the day

 Malava constituency Returning Officer Isaac Ruto said there were isolated cases of KIEM hitches which were later addressed.
 Area MP Malulu Injendi cast his ballot at Lugusi primary school at around 11am.  He was optimistic that Jubilee would garner more than 8, 000 votes it bagged on August 8.
