NASA leader Raila Odinga and former UN Deputy Secretary General, Lord Mark Malloch Brown. (Photo: Courtesy)
 National Super Alliance (NASA) presidential candidate Raila Odinga has said the polls agency would be performing an illegality if it goes on with the October 26 presidential election. 
 ALSO READ:

Let parties create a framework to resolve contentious issues

 In an interview with Saturday Standard at The Conrad Hotel in St James Park in London hours before he gave a talk at Royal Institute of International Affairs at Chatham House, Raila said there will be no election on October 26.
 He said the recent ruling by High Court Judge John Mativo that Thirdway Alliance presidential candidate Ekuru Aukot be included on the ballot was welcomed but a little too late.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Fresh polls
 He said the ruling could not be used to overturn the 2013 opinion of the Supreme Court and was therefore not binding on the October 26 elections.
 Speaking for the first time after Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) said they would have his name on the ballot because he had not withdrawn procedurally, Raila said the day would be an ordinary one and Kenyans will go about their businesses.
 Raila warned that any attempts by Wafula Chebukati led team would amount to an affront to the Kenyan law.
 “When we wrote to the IEBC for my withdrawal, it meant they have to organise fresh election in 90 days. There will be no elections on October 26, that should be clear,” he said.
 He warned against endorsing regimes with dubious records and abandoning democracy activists and civil society in the name of stability, war on terror and business. 
 ALSO READ:

IEBC gazettes names of presidential candidates

 “I express the fear that we are entering an era of anything goes with regard to democratisation with the West being seen to be turning its back on democracy by cutting funding,” he said.
 He said the electoral crisis in Kenya had caused serious economic dislocation and financial suffering.
 “And with each passing day, it also deepens divisions, polarisation and radicalisation across the country,” he said.
 The NASA leader said the new election will be as “corruptly conducted as the last one” and its outcome would in no way represent the will of the people.
 “We must ask: Is an election held to fulfill some legal requirement, regardless of whether it will be demonstrably free and fair? Elections lie at the heart of democracy. There is no greater symbol, nor more potent expression, of a people’s will and determination to decide the kind of country they want and to choose leaders who are committed to taking them there.”
 Deep crisis
 He said the the validity of the checklist of the requirements for free and fair elections proposed by NASA has not been disputed by anyone, including the IEBC, Jubilee or other actors and observers. 
 ALSO READ:

Two shot dead during anti-IEBC protests in Bondo

 “We therefore came to the conclusion that there is no intention on the part of the IEBC to undertake any changes to ensure that the “illegalities and irregularities” do not happen again,” he said.
 He said the Election Amendment Bill passed by Jubilee in Parliament had gutted many current electoral safeguards and severely limited the powers of the Supreme Court to annul an election outcome.
 “It is vital for Kenya’s friends and economic partners to realise that the crisis in Kenya is not only about who was or will be the next lawfully elected President of our great nation. The real crisis is that those in power have abundantly shown -- before, during and after this utterly failed election -- their determination to hold on to power by any and all means,” he said. He said the fact that the laws are being changed in the middle of an election cycle is akin to changing the rules of a football match at halftime in order to help the home team win.
 He warned that not many are aware that the crisis in Kenya goes much deeper and must be addressed urgently. “Kenya needs its international partners, who have been its great friends in the past, to support Kenyans in this struggle to protect and defend its democratic institutions and processes. Our partners enjoy enormous respect for the role they played in helping us overcome the decades-long yoke of one party rule in the 1990s,” he said.
 Back home, Siaya Senator James Orengo said they had explored all the options and there was no way the elections would be held unless IEBC and Jubilee wanted to engage in a circus.
 “Either through the 2013 Supreme Court ruling or Article 140 of the Constitution, if you look at them disjunctively and not conjunctively, you will arrive at the same thing that makes the coming election an illegality,” Orengo said.
 Orengo said IEBC and Jubilee was keen to have Raila’s name on the ballot for legitimacy purposes.
 “They want to have him in the polls to legitimise and sanitise their planned sham elections,” Orengo said.
 In London, Raila blamed the IEBC and Jubilee for putting the country in a uncomfortable situation which he said had heightened uncertainty. 
 ALSO READ:

NASA defies Matiang’i order, hold protests in Nairobi CBD 

 “The stalemate will hurt the investors. IEBC and Jubilee have the capacity to unlock this to steer the country back to normalcy,” said the NASA leader.
 — Additional reporting by Kipnyango Seronei in London.
