 
 One person has died in Siaya town during the Monday anti-IEBC protests.
 
 ALSO READ:

Nairobi Business Community vows to counter NASA protests

 The deceased Martin Odongo from Randago village is alleged to have chocked after inhaling teargas fumes.
 An eyewitness Celestine Akoth told The Standard that Odongo was among demonstrators at the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) offices in Siaya town. They were later dispersed by police using teargas. In the skirmishes, Odongo fell down and some demonstrators realized the man had collapsed and died.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 However, according to the County commandant Sarah Dancun, the deceased was not among those participating in demonstrations. The County commandant explained that the deceased had just left hospital before he collapsed and died by the roadside, next to the County government offices.
 "We found drugs in his pocket and from our investigations he died away from the protests. We cannot give more information now until we receive postmortem results,” she said.
 Siaya Medical superintendent Geoffrey Mwai, has confirmed that they received a body at the morgue. The medical superintendent told The Standard that Odongo died during the demos.
 Siaya governor Cornell Rasanga, Alego Usonga Member of Parliament Samuel Atandi and Women representative Christine Ombaka who led residents in anti-IEBC demonstrations said they will not relent until IEBC fulfills the National Super Alliance (NASA) irreducible minimum conditions.
 "We condemn the move by the police to throw teargas canisters at the peaceful demonstrators. We have met with the police commandant and county commandant who have assured us that they will not interfere with our peaceful protests again," said Rasanga.
 Atandi said the meeting with the police was meant to address the use of excessive force on peaceful protestors. 
 ALSO READ:

Hearings on proposed law changes begin amid standoff

 Similar anti-IEBC protests were held in Nairobi, Mombasa, Migori, Busia, Vihiga, Kakamega among other NASA strongholds.
