Kanu Chairman and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi has urged Kenyans to turn out and vote on October 26, saying the country needs to move on.
 “This circus on elections should end. The IEBC had initially planned the repeat presidential election on October 17 before pushing it to the October 26 and we need to decisively vote on that day since we need to move on as a united country,” he said. 
 ALSO READ:

Daggers drawn as Uhuru, Raila battle to lock Western votes

 The Senator reaffirmed his support for the re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta in the repeat elections. “Prior to the August 8 General Election, Kanu endorsed President Kenyatta but his victory was annulled by the Supreme Court. We are law abiding people thus we respected the court’s verdict and our resolve to back him in the repeat presidential poll is still solid,” stated the Kanu chairman.
 Speaking in Kapsang village on Saturday, Soy constituency in Uasin Gishu County, during the burial of Gogo Jane Tongoi Tarus, the mother in-law to former Eldoret North MP the late Reuben Chesire, the legislator urged locals to turn out in large numbers and vote for President Kenyatta.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “We are ready to vote for President Kenyatta and I am urging you to turn up on October 26 because we need a resounding victory for his re-election,” he stated.
 The Senator conveyed former President Moi’s message of condolence to the family, asking God to give them strength and comfort to bear the loss. 
 At the same time the Senator asked Soy MP poll loser Jonathan Bii of Kanu to withdraw the petition challenging the victory of Caleb Kositany.
 “I want to thank the Deputy President William Ruto for promising to accommodate Bii in the government. Since Kositany and Bii are children from one area, the case filed should be withdrawn and you two should forge a working relationship for the good of the community,” he said.
 Mr Kositany and Tiaty MP William Kamket vowed to ensure the amendments of the election laws pass in Parliament.
 “The draft election law will seal loopholes which led to the nullification of the presidential results. This laws will safeguard the credibility of future elections. The Supreme Court verdict was largely informed by the electoral process which was termed as flawed,” said the Soy MP. 
 ALSO READ:

Be ready for retire, Uhuru tells Raila

 He said hurdles that NASA leaders are putting in the way is a clear indication that they are not ready for the polls.
 Mr Kamket accused the NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga of being a stumbling to elections.
 “When people reach a certain age it is incumbent upon them to bless and pass the leadership baton to the next generation but this has not been the case with the NASA leader.”
