NAIROBI, KENYA:  Kenya’s horticultural industry stands to benefit from a deal between agro input company Elgon Kenya and IPM category products producer Dudutech.
 Through the pact, the Kenyan company will distribute Dudutech’s globally recognised products, an arrangement billed as a game changer in the country’s horticulture industry.
 The Horticultural sub sector is the fastest growing industry within the agricultural sector, recording an average growth of 15 percent to 20 percent per annum.
 The sub sector employs approximately 4.5 million people countrywide directly in production, processing, and marketing, while another 3.5 million people benefit indirectly through trade and other activities.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “The deal ties with our mantra of finding innovative solutions for our farmers and walking with them in their food production process. The products have been tried and tested world over returning impressive results,” said Vikash Jain Head of crop nutrition at Elgon Kenya.
 Elgon Kenya enjoys a countrywide network of stockists and agrovets making it easier to get the products to farmers across the country.
 “We have positioned ourselves as a company to provide products that tackle farmers’ greatest threats while protecting our environment. We are proud to partner with Elgon Kenya who shares in our philosophy and are looking forward to transforming the agricultural sector with this partnership,” said Barnaba Rotich from Dudutech.
 Notable products from Dudutech to be distributed by Elgon Kenya include Beauvitechtm WP known for its potency against whiteflies, thrips and aphids, hypotech that tackles leafminer and shore flies.
 The partnership comes even as more farmers move to biological pests and disease control methods to supplement traditional arsenals as prices of pesticides escalate beyond farmers' reach and with new pest and disease threats emerging as a result of change in climate.
 “Everyday farmers are staring at new and emerging threats as changes in weather hits home. We need to be on top of our game if we are to ensure that farmers are able to meet the growing demand for food in the face of the new threats while also protecting the environment in which they grow this food. These products address such concerns,” Vikash added.
 With years of proven track record of innovative integrated pest management solutions, Dudutech has been stepping up its resolve to ensure that farmers easily tackle crop production threats through modern bio control production facility and a highly trained team. “This partnership will go a great mile in ensuring that the main focus of our farmers; food production isn’t interrupted at any one particular point due to pests and diseases that are everyday becoming a painful reality. That is our ultimate goal,” said Mr. Rotich. 
