Parliament's Select Committee on proposed changes to the electoral laws is expected to begin public hearings amid criticism of the amendments.
 The committee has invited the public and various stakeholders to submit their memoranda ahead of the hearings scheduled to run until Thursday. 
 ALSO READ:

Nairobi Business Community vows to counter NASA protests

 National Super Alliance (NASA) leader Raila Odinga has demanded an unconditional withdrawal of the changes before he can agree to participate in the repeat presidential election on October 26.
 But President Uhuru Kenyatta has said the changes to the electoral laws will guarantee transparency by curbing any form of malpractice.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 The Opposition has no membership on the committee that was established on Thursday and has indicated it will not participate in changing the laws.
 Yesterday, committee chairman William Cheptumo (Baringo North) asked with the public to submit views and avoid engaging in what he described as political sideshows.
 Mr Cheptumo said the amendments were for the good of the country and should not be viewed as intended to benefit the ruling Jubilee Party.
 “I want to plead with Kenyans not to prosecute the matter out there. Let them present their views to the committee because this is not a Jubilee or NASA committee but a joint parliamentary committee,” he said.
 “It is a wrong perception to say that the changes are intended to benefit Jubilee. For instance, if we say that presiding officers should be punished if they commit electoral offences, it is aimed at ensuring credibility of the electoral process."
 He defended the decision to reduce the publication period from 14 days to one, arguing that the amendments were basic and straightforward. 
 ALSO READ:

NASA applying ‘lawfare’ tactics in long drawn fight for power

 He also cited the limited time left before the repeat poll.
 Political Parties Liaison Committee chairperson Jane Njiru said they had planned a plenary for Wednesday of all registered political parties to discuss the changes before submitting their views on Thursday.
 Ms Njiru said the committee would not reject the entire Bill but would look at specific amendments and their effects.
 “We plan to discuss the bill before we can agree on a common ground and present it to the commission on Thursday. We will study specific amendments and effects."
 She said failure by some parties to attend would not stop them from deliberating, adding that they would present the views of parties that participated in the discussions.
 Some of the stakeholders invited by the committee include the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, the Law Society of Kenya, political parties, civil society and religious groups.
 It was not immediately clear whether some of the stakeholders would participate after a section of religious leaders called for the shelving of the amendments. 
 ALSO READ:

Be ready for retire, Uhuru tells Raila

  
