They say when you go to Rome you do as the Romans do, but what if I told you that sometimes the Romans actually have a lot more to learn from you than you do from them?
   
 ALSO READ:

Global tech giants scramble for Kenya’s Internet billions

 
  




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Think about it, you come from a land with tremendous wealth in culture, resources, memes and also just recently a spike in the number of slay queens walking our cities and towns. I mean, doesn’t that make you feel really proud?
  
 
  
 Don’t you just want to shout to the whole world that we have the highest number of slay queens per square metre than anywhere else in the world? Well, I know I do…in a parallel universe maybe haha
   
 ALSO READ:

How politics leads to destruction of brand reputation and loyalty

 
  
 So let’s talk about some serious stuff kidogo, so for those of us who travel a lot (please, watu wa Rongai kupanda Ongata Line Sacco mpaka tao is not considered travelling)
  
 
  
 You’ll realise that for that time you are away there is little or no communication with friends and family back home because of the soaring roaming charges. You mess up and call your wife home for 5 minutes to ask what her and the kids had for dinner and it costs you so much that you have to sell your wedding ring, kidney and even your “cheers baba” blue Subaru just to settle the bill. Not cool! 
 ALSO READ:

Sacco denies reports of slashed fares

  
 
  
 You know, there is something uniquely beautiful about sharing ones experiences, thoughts and sightings when away in a foreign country for business or pleasure. Imagine seeing a really beautiful woman while in the streets of China, Ghana or even Netherlands and sending a selfie you just took with her to your wife at home for as low as 11Kshs per MB? Okay, I am kidding, don’t do that, it might be really cheap to send photos but your wife will make you pay in other means like bumps and bruises hehe
  
 
  
 Thanks to Safaricom Data Roaming Bundles you will now be in a position to #ShareWhenThere and save yourself a whole lot of stress and money, it will basically make your friends and family feel like you never even left, except you did. So next time you are packing for a trip and making sure you have all your essentials don’t forget to subscribe to Safaricom Data Roaming Bundles because after all, when you go to Rome, you have shown them how Kenyans do roaming.
   
 ALSO READ:

9 tips on investing when you’re a small business owner

 
