Researchers have found that vulnerable people could be immunised against malaria.
 Alternatively, the disease-causing parasite in a mosquito could be genetically modified. 
 ALSO READ:

New Novartis drug takes aim at tough-to-treat malaria

 It is believed that the two researches have potentially opened the way for the development of self-propagating malaria control strategies.
 The studies, whose findings were released, indicate that the advantage of these innovations is the lesser need to continually apply malaria control measures such as insecticides and bed nets.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Two new papers by researchers at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health’s Malaria Research Institute report success for highly promising strategies against malaria.
 One team of researchers discovered a strain of bacteria that can spread rapidly and persist for long among malaria-carrying mosquitoes. A genetically modified version of the bacterial strain strongly suppresses development of the malaria parasite, making the mosquitoes much less likely to transmit the parasites to humans.
 A second research team discovered that a genetic modification that boosted the immune system of malaria-carrying mosquitoes not only suppresses malaria parasites in the insects but also can spread quickly in a test population by changing the mosquitoes’ mating preferences.
 The researches have noted that since malaria is spread by female anopheles mosquitoes, one promising way to prevent malaria, in addition to traditional approaches such as bed nets and insecticide, is to modify the mosquitoes so they are no longer capable of spreading the parasite to humans.
 They say the new findings could lead to developing bacteria and mosquitoes that would be released into mosquito populations in the wild, and would propagate on their own to reduce malaria transmission to humans in endemic areas.
 These strategies are designed to be complementary and would be used in conjunction with measures such as bed nets and insecticides. 
 ALSO READ:

Stop stealing nets, health staff told

 The discovery of the new mosquito-infecting bacterial strain was a chance event. “We were working with a different bacterium when a researcher on the project happened to find evidence of a bacterial colony in our mosquitoes’ ovaries. That was unusual — normally we find bacteria only in the mosquito gut,” said Prof Marcelo Jacobs-Lorena of Bloomberg, the study's lead author.
 Jacobs-Lorena and other researchers have been developing genetically engineered bacteria that can infect mosquito populations and kill the malaria parasites without harming the mosquitoes themselves.
 He said that getting such bacteria to spread efficiently has been a key challenge, but experiments revealed Serratia AS1 to be almost perfect for the task.
 Jacobs-Lorena and colleagues found that, unlike other mosquito-infecting bacteria, Serratia AS1 are easily transmitted from males to females during mating, and from female mosquitoes to their offspring. The bacteria also stably colonise the mosquito gut, where malaria parasites develop.
 In the second study, a team led by Prof George Dimopoulos made small modifications to the DNA of malaria-transmitting anopheles mosquitoes to boost the activity of immune genes in the insects.
  
 
 ALSO READ:

Big boost in war against malaria as resistant mosquitoes find their match

