One person was shot dead on Friday in Bungoma town allegedly by police officers, as protests against the fresh presidential election continued.
 The man, only identified as Barasa, is said to have been sitting outside his house in Mteremko estate when the officers invaded his compound and shot him. 
 ALSO READ:

Godec’s statement weakens fight for Kenyan democracy

 Neighbours said Barasa was shot for no reason as he was not among those who had barricaded the road a few metres away.
 But Bungoma County Police Commander Charles Munyoli said he had not received information on the killing and would only comment once he was informed.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Earlier, residents engaged police in running battles in the town. The residents had blocked the Bungoma-Mumias highway and the entrance to the main bus stop by lighting bonfires.
 They then fled when police showed up and moved to another spot.
 The chase went on for about two hours before the demonstrators dispersed. The move caused fear and many businesses that had opened closed and people deserted the town.
 A heavy contingent of police officers patrolled the town for the better part of yesterday in a bid to quell the demonstrations.
 Busia County was relatively calm Friday, but only a few business units opened, following chaos that rocked the area on Thursday. Police patrolled Busia-Bumala and Busia-Nambale roads to maintain order.
 On Thursday, Busia town Central Business District (CBD) could not be accessed by pedestrians and motorists as protesters barricaded roads leading to the town. 
 ALSO READ:

Are protests and counter protests the only route to change?

 Police had a hard time trying to disperse the youth and put out the bonfire on the roads. At night, gunshots rent the air as police engaged the youth in running battles.
 At least five people were injured when police used live bullets against the protesters. Joseph Onyango from Marachi slum is one of the casualties of the police brutality.
 He was shot in the thigh and was admitted to New Busia Maternity Hospital. A medical officer at the hospital said Onyango was out of danger since the bullet did not touch the bone.
 Unarmed protesters
 Another victim, Maurine Auma, was also shot by police in Marachi on Thursday night when police raided the slum to deal with protesters.
 She is fighting for her life at St Mary’s Mumias Mission Hospital where she was rushed to by Red Cross Society’s ambulance.
 Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong and Woman Representative Florence Mutua accused the police of using excessive force against unarmed protesters. 
 ALSO READ:

Police, protesters engage in heavy fire in Kawangware

 “It is primitive and uncouth for police to direct their energies to people who are not armed. This must stop,” said Ojaamong.
 Residents of Chakol estate yesterday accused the police of lobbying teargas canisters into their houses as the officers hunted for youths who had disrupted voting in the area during the day.
 One person was shot dead on Friday in Bungoma town allegedly by police officers, as protests against the fresh presidential election continued.
