National Super Alliance (NASA) presidential candidate Raila Odinga has told President Uhuru Kenyatta to forget votes from western Kenya.
 Raila said the region will vote for NASA in the repeat presidential election scheduled for October 26 and dismissed recent defections to Jubilee Party. 
 ALSO READ:

Behind-the-scenes: Secret efforts to end political stalemate

 “Where will the defectors get the votes to give Uhuru the purported 70 per cent of total votes cast when they lost in the August polls?” Raila posed.
 He claimed the defectors led by former MPs Paul Otuoma (Funyula), Ababu Namwamba (Budalang’i), Alfred Khang’ati (Bungoma governorship seat) and former Speaker of the National Assembly Kenneth Marende were only out to satisfy their selfish ambitions.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Former Westlands MP Fred Gumo and former Vihiga Governor Moses Akaranga have also joined Jubilee Party.
 PERSONAL INITIATIVE
 Raila said the defectors did not represent the wish of the electorate in the region, claiming Uhuru enticed them with goodies to join Jubilee to hoodwink the voters that NASA supporters have shifted allegiance.
 The NASA leader spoke at Bomani grounds in Mumias town after attending a church service at the Anglican Church of Kenya diocese of Mumias.
 He also hit out at the poll losers in the August 8 elections who defected to Jubilee, noting that they will not add him any votes.
 He said their move to join Uhuru camp was a personal initiative and not the will of the western region people. 
 ALSO READ:

Behind-the-scenes: Secret efforts to end political stalemate

 The NASA leader also said Uhuru used Parliament to change electoral laws by amending the Constitution using the back door in a bid to get create loopholes for rigging in the repeat polls so as to remain in power.
 “If Uhuru won fairly in the August polls, why is he pushing for amendments in the electoral laws? He is introducing dictatorial tendencies in the country by using Parliament to come up with bad laws that favour him using the tyranny of numbers he has in the House,” he said.
 Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula said the region was firmly in NASA since Mudavadi and he were the undisputed Luhya kingpins.
 Wetang’ula said the defectors who joined Jubilee camp were being moved by their own selfish interests and that they would not affect Raila’s stab for the presidency.
 “The law can be changed by Parliament that does not have the interests of the electorate at heart to favour the ruling party but the people of Kenya are greater than anyone in power,” Wetang’ula said.
 He also said Kenyans were ready to see reforms at the electoral body, saying if their demands will not be implemented, then they will be back on the streets today in the entire country.
   
 ALSO READ:

Nairobi Business Community vows to counter NASA protests

