The National Super Alliance (NASA) has dared the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to declare President Uhuru Kenyatta winner in the October 26 repeat presidential poll. Led by Siaya Senator James Orengo, NASA leaders vowed on Saturday that they will use the August 8 General Election results to declare Opposition chief, Raila Odinga, president if Uhuru is sworn in. “We will use August 8 results to swear NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga if Uhuru Kenyatta tries to use October 26 poll results to be sworn in,” said Orengo. Mr Orengo pointed out that according to the Constitution, Kenyans have the sovereign authority and their voices must be heard. “The executive authority of Republic of Kenya is with the people of Kenya, the Constitution says you have the sovereign authority. Uhuru does not have sovereign authority, you people have,” the Siaya Senator told residents in Machakos. Orengo reminded people of how Raila fought to ensure that Kenya attained multiparty democracy. “Raila Odinga alipambana na Kenyatta wa kwanza mpaka akafa, Moi alienda nyumbani baada ya kufunga Raila, Kibaki joked with Raila and he went home, Uhuru Kenyatta will go home and Raila Odinga will come to be the President of Kenya,” he said. Orengo was accompanied by Mavoko MP Patrick Makau, Former senators Bonny Khalwale (Kakamega) and Johnstone Muthama (Machakos) in Mavoko, Machakos County. Raila Odinga said on Friday (October 27) that the National Resistance Movement will ensure that President Uhuru steps aside if he is declared winner by IEBC. Raila said NRM will not use violence to eject Jubilee Government from power, but rather use peaceful resistance. The former Prime Minister also pointed that his brigade will not use demonstrations as some Jubilee politicians have alleged. He, however, did not state the specific methods that NRM will use to spearhead its grand plan. “We’re not going to go for violent confrontation with government. We’re going to do peaceful resistance, not through demonstrations but through other methods,” Raila said in an interview with CNN. The Opposition chief said that the movement would announce in detail the measures they are going to take tomorrow (October 30) to force Government to step aside. “On Monday, we are going to announce a series of measures that we’ll take in order to bring pressure on this government to step aside,” he said. Raila went ahead and said that if Uhuru is announced winner, they would announce measures they are going to take to enhance pressure on the Government to step down. 