President Uhuru Kenyatta has warned the National Super Alliance (NASA) against causing chaos ahead of the repeat presidential poll slated for October 26.
 Through the State House Spokesman, Manoah Esipisu, President Uhuru said on Sunday that NASA’s hardline stance on the election was hurting Kenya, indicating that he bears a constitutional responsibility of making the country safe and peaceful. 
 ALSO READ:

We seem oblivious to the fact that we are courting violence

 The Head of State added that he would not let democracy be weakened by individuals who prefer threats instead of dialogue and peace.
 Uhuru criticised the Opposition for attacking independent institutions through intimidation, crude threats and violence.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “Recently, however, we’ve seen more than odd behavior. Sections of the opposition political class are acting as though they, not our independent institutions, make and interpret the rules. The rest of us have to conform our actions to the rules; but for them? It is the rules that have to conform to their actions.
 “That’s why we’re seeing blatant attempts to force independent bodies to change their advice and their operations by intimidation, crude threats, and actual violence,” Uhuru indicated.
 On his part, Deputy President William Ruto, stressed that the Jubilee Party will beat NASA in the repeat showdown.
 DP Ruto stated that the President will trounce Raila like he did in the August 8 General Election.
 He dismissed NASA’s call for election boycott, pointing out that Jubilee is ready for the poll as the Constitution dictates.
 Ruto, however, stated that the Jubilee brigade must address electoral laws and other major reforms before the election as directed by the Supreme Court. 
 ALSO READ:

Be ready for retire, Uhuru tells Raila

 “The Supreme Court said the systems had issues and the only way to change them is through a change of laws. Raila Odinga himself has said ‘no reforms, no elections’ and that is why we need to do the reforms in Parliament,” he said.
  
 
