Uneasy calm returned to parts of the country after three days of violence. At least 10 people have been killed, dozens injured, and property destroyed in protests against last Thursday's repeat presidential election. The deaths happened in Nairobi, Kisumu, Bungoma, Homa Bay, Migori, and Machakos counties. Businesses slowly resumed in most of the affected areas as leaders moved to calm tensions. Police say tension remain high in Kisumu, Migori, Homa Bay, and Siaya, where voting did not take place. At least 40 people were injured in chaos in various parts of the country. Reports in Nairobi showed that three people were killed in Kawangware 56 during clashes between two youth groups. On Saturday thousands of people poured into the streets in the area to call for peace. This was after a group of youths local residents claimed were not from the area attacked the region, allegedly in retaliation for an earlier incident where property was destroyed. By the time police arrived to quell the violence, property had been destroyed. Officers who rushed to the scene said 20 injuries were reported. Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet said 86 people were arrested across the country and would face electoral offence charges in various courts today. One police officer was killed and six others injured. At the same time, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations said it was investigating officials in Nyanza region where elections did not take place majorly because returning and presiding officers, their deputies, and clerks did not show up. DID NOT SHOW UP Mr Boinnet said the polls failed to take place in some areas due to various factors. “However a number of polling stations were not opened or opened late due to various factors among them failure of IEBC (officials) to report on duty, weather conditions, and refusal by hired transporters to release their vehicles,” he said. He said there was trouble in Kitui, Garissa, Nairobi, Migori, Homa Bay, Kisumu, Siaya, Lamu, Meru, Mombasa, Kisii, Busia, Narok, Machakos, Kakamega, and Bungoma counties. In Garissa, he said, a police officer died along the Shimbeli-Abdi Samit road when a hired motor vehicle ferrying IEBC officials and election materials under the escort of police officers was involved in an accident. Another one was admitted to hospital. He said on Wednesday demonstrators barricaded the Kisii-Migori-Sirare road with rocks and stoned motorists. They destroyed the windscreen of three police vehicles and pelted police officers guarding Equity Bank with stones. In Meru, along the Kanyakine-Yururu- Gathangene road, a vehicle ferrying officials and election materials from Nkubu to Giumbu Primary School polling station was involved in an accident. The police officers who were escorting the materials, an IEBC official, and one passenger were injured. The election materials were later ferried to their destination. CLOSED STATION In Narok, at Entontol polling station of Melili ward, Narok North constituency, a group of youth entered the polling station and destroyed five presidential ballot papers that had been cast. “As the police engaged the mob the presiding officer consulted the returning officer and closed the station after rowdy youths made voting impossible,” he said. In Nairobi demonstrations that often turned violent happened in Kibera, Kawangware, Huruma, Mathare, Kariobangi, Mukuru, and Kayole. 